# Publication 509 - p509

**Tax Year:** 2026
**Source:** https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p509.pdf
**Document Type:** form

---

## Contents

## Publication 509

## Tax Calendars

For use in 2026

<!-- image -->

## Contents

Introduction

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

1

| Background Information for Using                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| the Tax Calendars . . . . . . . . . . . 2                                                                                                                                                     |
| General Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . 3                                                                                                                                                |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4                                                                                                             |
| Second Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Employer's Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . 6 First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 |
| Excise Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8                                                                                                                                               |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9                                                                                                                                                 |
| Second Quarter 9                                                                                                                                                                              |
| . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10                                                                                                                                                  |
| Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10                                                                                                                                                   |
| To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 12                                                                                                                                                    |
| How                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## Future Developments

For  the  latest  information  about  developments related to Pub. 509, such as legislation enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub509 .

## Reminders

Form  1099-NEC. Form  1099-NEC,  Nonemployee Compensation, is used to report nonemployee compensation.

Form  1040-SR. Form  1040-SR,  U.S.  Income Tax Return for Seniors, is a tax return for senior citizens.  For  tax  year  2025,  Form  1040-SR  is available to you if you were born before January 2, 1961. The form generally mirrors Form 1040.

Online IRS Tax Calendar. The IRS Tax Calendar is available online at IRS.gov/TaxCalendar . This  calendar  is  also  available  in  Spanish  and Chinese.

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a  proud  partner  with  the National  Center  for Missing &amp; Exploited Children® (NCMEC) . Photographs  of  missing  children  selected  by  the Center may appear in this publication on pages that  would  otherwise  be  blank.  You  can  help bring  these  children  home  by  looking  at  the photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

## Introduction

A tax calendar is a 12-month calendar divided into  quarters.  The  calendar  gives  specific  due dates for:

- Paying taxes, and
- Filing tax forms,
- Taking other actions required by federal tax law.

What  does  this  publication  contain? This publication contains the following.

1. A section on how to use the tax calendars.
2. Three tax calendars:
- a. General Tax Calendar,
- b. Employer's Tax Calendar, and
- c. Excise Tax Calendar.
3. A table showing the semiweekly deposit due dates for payroll taxes for 2026.

Most of the due dates discussed in this publication are also included in the online IRS Tax Calendar, available at IRS.gov/TaxCalendar . The online IRS Tax Calendar is also available in Spanish and Chinese.

Who should use this publication? Primarily, employers  need  to  use  this  publication.  However,  the General  Tax  Calendar ,  later,  has  important due dates for all businesses and individuals.  Anyone  who  must  pay  excise  taxes  may need the Excise Tax Calendar , later.

What are the advantages of using a tax calendar? The following are advantages of using a tax calendar.

- You can file or pay timely and avoid penalties.
- You don't have to figure the due dates yourself.
- You don't have to adjust the due dates for Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
- You don't have to adjust the due dates for special banking rules if you use the Employer's Tax Calendar or Excise Tax Calendar , later.

Which calendar(s) should I use? To  decide which calendar(s) to use, first look at the General Tax Calendar , later, and highlight the dates that apply to you. If you're an employer, also use the Employer's Tax Calendar ,  later.  If  you  must pay excise taxes, use the Excise Tax Calendar , later.  Depending  on  your  situation,  you  may need to use more than one calendar.

What other publications and tax forms will I need? Table 1 lists other publications you may need.  Each  calendar  lists  the  forms  you  may need.

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication  for  information  about  getting  publications and forms.

Forms,  instructions, and  publications in Spanish. Some forms, instructions , and publi-

Table 1. Useful Publications

| IF you're...                 | THEN you may need...                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| an employer                  | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-A, Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-B, Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits. • Pub. 15-T, Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods. • Pub. 926, Household Employer's Tax Guide. |
| a farmer                     | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 225, Farmer's Tax Guide.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| an individual                | • Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| required to pay excise taxes | • Pub. 510, Excise Taxes.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

cations discussed in this publication have Spanish-language  versions  available.  Some  examples  include  Form  1040  (sp),  Form  941  (sp), Form  W-4  (sp),  Form  2290  (sp),  and  Pub.  15 (sp). Although this publication doesn't reference Spanish-language forms, instructions, and publications in each instance that one is available, you can go to IRS.gov/SpanishForms to  determine if a Spanish-language version is available.

What  isn't  included  in  these  calendars? The  calendars  don't  cover  the  employment  or excise  tax  deposit  rules.  You  can  find  the  deposit  rules  for  employment  taxes  in  Pub.  15. The  deposit  rules  for  excise  taxes  are  in  Pub. 510 and in the Instructions for Form 720. In addition, the calendars don't cover filing forms and other requirements for:

- Gift taxes,
- Estate taxes,
- Trusts,
- Certain types of corporations,
- Exempt organizations,
- Foreign partnerships, or
- Nonresident aliens.

Comments  and  suggestions. We  welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.

Although  we  can't  respond  individually  to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will consider your comments and suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions,  and  publications. Don't send  tax  questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormComments .  Or  you  can  write  to the  Internal  Revenue  Service,  Tax  Forms  and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Getting  answers  to  your  tax  questions. If you have a tax question not answered by this publication or the How To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/ Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and pub­ lications. Go  to IRS.gov/Forms to  download current  and  prior-year  forms,  instructions,  and publications.

Ordering  tax  forms,  instructions,  and publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order  current  forms,  instructions,  and  publications; call 800-829-3676  to  order  prior-year forms  and  instructions.  The  IRS  will  process your  order  for  forms  and  publications  as  soon as possible. Don't resubmit requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

## Background Information for Using the Tax Calendars

The following brief explanations may be helpful to you in using the tax calendars.

Electronic  services  to  make  taxes  easier. Individuals and businesses can enjoy the benefits  of  filing  and paying their federal taxes electronically.  Whether you rely on a tax professional or handle your own taxes, the IRS offers you convenient programs to make taxes easier.

- Businesses can e-file certain business tax returns such as Forms 1120, 1120-S, and 1065; certain employment tax returns such as Forms 940 and 941; certain excise tax returns such as Forms 720, 2290, and 8849; and Form 1099 and other information returns. Go to IRS.gov/BusinessEfile for more information. Most businesses can make a variety of tax payments, including estimated tax payments, federal tax deposits, and paying a balance due on your return, using EFTPS, IRS Direct Pay, or your IRS business tax account. For more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov . Also see Electronic deposit requirement , later, for the EFTPS phone numbers. For more information about IRS Direct Pay, go to IRS.gov/ DirectPay . For more information about creating and accessing your IRS business tax account, go to IRS.gov/BusinessAccount .
- Individuals can e-file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR. For more information, see How To Get Tax Help , later, and go to IRS.gov/ Efile . Individuals can make a variety of tax payments, including estimated tax payments and paying a balance due on your return, using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), IRS Direct Pay, or your IRS individual tax account. For more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov . Also see Electronic deposit requirement , later, for the EFTPS phone numbers. For more information about IRS Direct Pay, go to IRS.gov/DirectPay . For more information about creating and accessing your IRS individual tax account, go to IRS.gov/ Account .

For  more  information  about  other  payment options, go to IRS.gov/Pay .

Tax  deposits. Some  taxes  can  be  paid  with the return on which they are reported. However, in many cases, you have to deposit the tax before the due date for filing the return. Tax deposits are figured for periods of time that are shorter than the time period covered by the return. See Pub.  15  for  the  employment  tax  deposit  rules. For the excise tax deposit rules, see Pub. 510 or the Instructions for Form 720.

Electronic deposit requirement. You must  use  electronic  funds  transfer  (EFT)  to make all federal tax deposits. Generally, an EFT is  made  using  EFTPS,  IRS  Direct  Pay,  or  your IRS business tax account. If you don't want to use one of these methods, you can arrange for your  tax  professional,  financial  institution,  payroll service, or other trusted third party to make electronic  deposits  on  your  behalf.  Also,  you may arrange for your financial institution to initiate  a  same-day wire payment on your behalf. EFTPS is a free service provided by the Department of the Treasury. Payments made using IRS Direct Pay or through your IRS business tax account are also free.  Services  provided  by  your tax professional, financial institution, payroll service, or other third party may have a fee.

For  more  information  about  IRS  Direct  Pay, go  to IRS.gov/DirectPay .  For  more  information about  making  an  EFT  through  your  IRS  business tax account, go to IRS.gov/ BusinessAccount .

To get more  information or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To  contact  EFTPS  using  Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, dial 711  and  then  provide  the  TRS  assistant  the 800-555-4477 number above or 800-733-4829. Additional information  about  EFTPS  is  also available in Pub. 966.

Caution: If you fail to timely, properly, and fully make your federal tax deposit, you may be subject  to  a  failure-to-deposit  penalty.  EFTPS  accepts same-day payments of $1 million or less if the payment is submitted before 3:00 p.m. Eastern time on a business day. If your payment is more than $1 million, you must submit the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the date the deposit is due.

Saturday,  Sunday,  or  legal  holiday. Generally, if a due date for performing any act for tax purposes  falls  on  a  Saturday,  Sunday,  or  legal holiday,  the  act  is  considered  to  be  performed timely  if  it  is  performed  no  later  than  the  next day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.  The  term  'legal  holiday'  means  any  legal holiday  in  the  District  of  Columbia.  The  calendars  provided  in  this  publication  make  the  adjustments  for  Saturdays,  Sundays,  and  legal holidays.  But  you  must  make  any  adjustments for statewide legal holidays, as discussed later.

Caution: An  exception  to  this  rule  for  certain excise taxes is noted later under the Excise Tax Calendar.

Legal holidays. Legal holidays occurring in 2026 are listed below.

- January 19-Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
- January 1-New Year's Day
- February 16-Washington's Birthday
- May 25-Memorial Day
- April 16-District of Columbia Emancipation Day
- June 19-Juneteenth National Independence Day
- September 7-Labor Day
- July 3-Independence Day (observed)
- October 12-Indigenous Peoples' Day (Columbus Day)
- November 11-Veterans Day
- December 25-Christmas Day
- November 26-Thanksgiving Day

Statewide  legal  holidays. In general,  a statewide legal holiday delays a due date for filing  a  return  only  if  the  IRS  office  where  you're required to file is located in that state. For individuals, a statewide legal holiday also delays a due date for filing a return for residents of that state. A statewide legal holiday doesn't delay a due date for making a federal tax deposit.

Penalties  and  Interest. Whenever  possible, you  should  take  action  before  the  listed  due date. If you're late, you may have to pay a penalty as well as interest on any overdue taxes.

Be sure to follow all the tax laws that apply to you. In addition to civil penalties, criminal penalties may be imposed for intentionally not paying taxes, for intentionally filing a false return, or for not filing a required return.

Use  of  private  delivery  services. You  can use  certain  private  delivery  services  (PDSs) designated by the IRS to meet the timely mailing  as  timely  filing/paying  rule  for  tax  returns and payments.

The  PDS  can  tell  you  how  to  get  written proof of the mailing date.

Go  to IRS.gov/PDS for  the  current  list  of designated PDSs. For the IRS mailing address to  use  if  you're  using  a  PDS,  go  to IRS.gov/ PDSstreetAddresses . Select the mailing  address listed on the webpage that is in the same state  as  the  address  to  which  you  would  mail the  return  without  a  payment,  as  shown  in  the instructions for your tax return.

Caution: PDSs  can't deliver items to P.O. boxes. You must use the U.S. Postal Service to mail any item to an IRS P .O. box address.

## General Tax Calendar

This  tax  calendar  has  the  due  dates  for  2026 that  most  taxpayers  will  need.  Employers  and persons who pay excise taxes should also use the Employer's Tax Calendar and the Excise Tax Calendar , later.

Fiscal-year taxpayers. If  you file your income tax return for a fiscal year rather than the calendar year, you must change some of the dates in this calendar. These changes are described under Fiscal-Year Taxpayers at the end of this calendar.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## January 12

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during December, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531, Reporting  Tip  Income,  for  more  information on how to report tips to your employer.

## January 15

Individuals. Make a payment of your estimated tax for 2025 if you didn't pay your income tax for the year through withholding (or didn't pay in enough tax that way). See Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically.  This  is  the  final  installment  date  for 2025 estimated tax payments. However, you don't  have  to  make  this  payment  if  you  file your 2025 return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) and pay all tax due by February 2, 2026.

Farmers  and  fishermen. Pay  your  estimated  tax  for  2025.  See  Form  1040-ES  for more information, including how to make estimated tax payments electronically. You have until April 15 to file your 2025 income tax return  (Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR).  If  you don't pay your estimated tax by January 15, you must file your 2025 return and pay all tax due by March 2, 2026, to avoid an estimated tax penalty.

## February 2

Individuals  who  must  make  estimated  tax payments. If you didn't pay your last installment of estimated tax by January 15, you may choose (but aren't required) to file your income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) for 2025 by February 2. Filing your return  and  paying  all  tax  due  by  February  2 prevents any penalty for late payment of the last installment. If you can't file and pay your tax  by  February  2,  file  and  pay  your  tax  by April 15.

- All  businesses. Give  annual  information statements to recipients of certain payments you made during 2025. You can use the appropriate version of Form 1099 or other information return. Form 1099 can be issued electronically  with  the  consent  of  the  recipient. Payments  that  may  be  covered  include  the following.
- Compensation for workers who aren't considered employees (including fishing boat proceeds to crew members).
- Cash payments for fish (or other aquatic life) purchased from anyone engaged in the trade or business of catching fish.
- Dividends and other corporate distributions.
- Rent.
- Interest.
- Royalties.
- Profit-sharing distributions.
- Payments of Indian gaming profits to tribal members.
- Retirement plan distributions.
- Prizes and awards.
- Original issue discount.
- Medical and health care payments.
- Cash payments over $10,000. See the Instructions for Form 8300.
- Debt cancellation (treated as payment to debtor).

See the General Instructions for Certain Information  Returns for  information  on  what payments  are  covered,  how  much  the  payment must be before a statement is required,

which  form  to  use,  when  to  file,  and  extensions  of  time  to  provide  statements  to  the IRS.  Form  1099-B,  Proceeds  From  Broker and Barter Exchange  Transactions; Form 1099-S, Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions; and certain reporting on Form 1099-MISC,  Miscellaneous  Information,  are due to recipients by February 17.

Payers of nonemployee compensation. File  Form  1099-NEC  for  nonemployee compensation paid in 2025.

## February 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during January, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## February 17

Individuals. If you claimed exemption from income tax withholding last year on the Form W-4 you gave your employer, you must file a new Form W-4 by this date to continue your exemption for another year.

- All  businesses. Give  annual  information statements to recipients of certain payments you made during 2025. You can use the appropriate version of Form 1099 or other information return. Form 1099 can be issued electronically  with  the  consent  of  the  recipient. This  due  date  applies  only  to  the  following types of payments.
- All payments reported on Form 1099-S.
- All payments reported on Form 1099-B.
- Substitute payments reported in box 8 or gross proceeds paid to an attorney reported in box 10 of Form 1099-MISC.

## March 2

- All  businesses. File  information  returns (for example, certain Forms 1099) for certain payments you made during 2025. These payments  are  described  under All  businesses under  February  2,  earlier.  However,  Form 1099-NEC  reporting  nonemployee  compensation must be filed by February 2. There are different forms  for different  types  of  payments. Use a separate Form 1096 to summarize  and  transmit  the  forms  for  each  type  of payment.  See  the General  Instructions  for Certain  Information  Returns for  information on  what  payments  are  covered,  how  much the  payment  must  be  before  a  return  is  required, which form to use, and extensions of time to file.

If you file Forms 1097, 1098, 1099 (except a Form  1099-NEC  reporting  nonemployee  compensation), 3921, 3922, or W-2G electronically, your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31. The due date for giving the  recipient  these  forms  generally  remains February 2.

Farmers  and  fishermen. File  your  2025 income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) and pay all tax due. However, you have until April 15 to file if you paid your 2025 estimated tax by January 15, 2026.

## March 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received  $20  or  more  in  tips  during  February, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## March 16

Partnerships. File  a  2025  calendar  year return  (Form  1065).  Provide  each  partner with  a  copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1  (Form 1065),  Partner's  Share  of  Income,  Deductions, Credits, etc., or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), and, if applicable, Schedule  K-3  (Form  1065),  Partner's  Share of  Income,  Deductions,  Credits,  etc.-International,  or  substitute  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1065).

To request an automatic 6-month extension of  time  to  file  the  return,  file  Form  7004.  Then, file  the  return  and  provide  each  partner  with  a copy  of  their  final  or  amended  (if  required) Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  and,  if  applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) by September 15.

- S corporations. File a 2025 calendar year income tax return (Form 1120-S) and pay any tax  due.  Provide  each  shareholder  with  a copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1  (Form  1120-S), Shareholder's  Share  of  Income,  Deductions, Credits, etc., or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form  1120-S),  and,  if  applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1120-S), Shareholder's Share of  Income,  Deductions,  Credits,  etc.-International,  or  substitute  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1120-S).

To request an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return, file Form 7004 and deposit  what  you  estimate  you  owe  in  tax.  Then, file  the return; pay any tax, interest, and penalties  due;  and  provide  each  shareholder  with  a copy of their Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if  applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form  1120-S)  by September 15.

- S  corporation  election. File  Form  2553 to elect to be treated as an S corporation beginning  with  calendar  year  2026.  If  Form 2553 is filed late, S corporation treatment will begin with calendar year 2027.

## March 31

- Electronic filing of Forms 1097, 1098, 1099, 3921, 3922,  and  W-2G. File Forms 1097, 1098, 1099 (except a Form 1099-NEC reporting nonemployee compensation), 3921, 3922, and W-2G with the IRS. This due date applies only if you file electronically. Otherwise,  see All  businesses under  March  2, earlier.

The due date for  giving  the  recipient  these forms generally remains February 2.

For  information  about  filing  Forms  1097, 1098,  1099,  3921,  3922,  and  W-2G  electronically, see Pub. 1220.

## Second Quarter

The second quarter of a calendar year is made up of April, May, and June.

## April 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during March, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## April 15

Individuals. File  a  2025  Form  1040  or Form  1040-SR  and  pay  any  tax  due.  If  you want an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return, file Form 4868 and pay what you estimate you owe in tax to avoid penalties  and  interest.  For  more  information,  see Form  4868.  Then,  file  Form  1040  or  Form 1040-SR by October 15.

If  you're  not  paying  your  2026  income  tax through withholding (or won't pay in enough tax during  the  year  that  way),  pay  the  first  installment  of  your  2026  estimated  tax.  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically. Also, see Pub. 505.

Household  employers. If  you  paid  cash wages of $2,800 or more in 2025 to a household  employee,  you  must  file  Schedule  H (Form 1040), Household Employment Taxes. If  you're  required to file a federal income tax return  (Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR),  file Schedule H (Form 1040) with the return and report any household employment taxes. Report any federal unemployment (FUTA) tax on Schedule  H  (Form  1040)  if  you  paid  total cash wages of $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter of 2024 or 2025 to household employees.  Also,  report  any  income  tax  you withheld  for  your  household  employees.  For more information, see Pub. 926.

Corporations. File  a  2025  calendar  year income tax  return  (Form  1120)  and  pay  any tax due. If you want an automatic 6-month extension  of  time  to  file  the  return,  file  Form 7004 and deposit what you estimate you owe in taxes.

Deposit the first installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## May 11

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during April, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## June 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during May, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## June 15

Individuals. If you're a U.S. citizen or resident  alien  living  and  working  (or  on  military duty)  outside  the  United  States  and  Puerto Rico,  file  Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR  and pay any tax, interest, and penalties due. Otherwise, see Individuals under April 15, earlier. If  you want additional time to file your return, file  Form 4868 to obtain 4 additional months to file and pay what you estimate you owe in tax to avoid penalties and interest. Then, file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR by October 15.

However, if you're a participant in a combat zone, you may be able to further extend the filing  deadline.  See  Pub.  3,  Armed  Forces'  Tax Guide.

Individuals. Make a payment of your 2026 estimated tax if you're not paying your income tax for the year through withholding (or won't pay  in  enough  tax  that  way).  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically.  This  is  the  second  installment  date  for estimated tax in 2026. Also, see Pub. 505.

Corporations. Deposit the second installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during June, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## August 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during July, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## September 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during August, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## September 15

Individuals. Make a payment of your 2026 estimated tax if you're not paying your income tax for the year through withholding (or won't pay  in  enough  tax  that  way).  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically. This is the third installment date for estimated tax in 2026. Also, see Pub. 505.

Partnerships. File  a  2025  calendar  year return  (Form  1065).  This  due  date  applies only  if  you  timely  requested  an  automatic

6-month  extension.  Otherwise,  see Partnerships under  March  16,  earlier.  Provide  each partner with a copy of their final or amended Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) and, if applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1065).

S corporations. File a 2025 calendar year income tax return (Form 1120-S) and pay any tax,  interest,  and  penalties  due.  This  due date  applies  only  if  you  timely  requested  an automatic  6-month  extension  of  time  to  file the return. Otherwise, see S corporations under  March  16,  earlier.  Provide  each  shareholder with a copy of their final  or  amended Schedule  K-1  (Form  1120-S)  or  substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form  1120-S)  or  substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S).

Corporations. Deposit the third installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 13

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during September, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## October 15

Individuals. If you have an automatic 6-month extension to file your income tax return for 2025, file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR and pay any tax, interest, and penalties due.

Corporations. File  a  2025  calendar  year income tax  return  (Form  1120)  and  pay  any tax,  interest,  and  penalties  due.  This  due date  applies  only  if  you  timely  requested  an automatic 6-month extension. Otherwise, see Corporations under April 15, earlier.

## November 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during October, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## December 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during November, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## December 15

Corporations. Deposit  the  fourth  installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Fiscal-Year Taxpayers

If you use a fiscal year (rather than the calendar year) as your tax year, you should change some of  the  dates in this calendar. Use the following general guidelines to make these changes.

Tip: The 3 months that make up each quarter of a fiscal year may be different from those of each calendar quarter, depending on when the fiscal year begins. Also, see Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, earlier.

## Individuals

Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR. This  form  is due on the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of your tax year. Form 4868 is used to request  an  automatic  6-month  extension  of  time to file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR.

Estimated  tax  payments. Payments  are  due on the 15th day of the 4th, 6th, and 9th months of your tax year and on the 15th day of the 1st month  after  your  tax  year  ends.  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to make estimated tax payments electronically.

## Partnerships

Form 1065. This form is due on the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the partnership's tax  year.  Provide  each  partner  with  a  copy  of their  Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  or  substitute Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  and,  if  applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) by the 15th day of the 3rd month  after  the  end  of  the  partnership's  tax year.  Form  7004  is  used  to  request  an  automatic  6-month  extension  of  time  to  file  Form 1065.

## Corporations and S Corporations

Form 1120 (or Form 7004). This form is due on the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of the  corporation's  tax  year.  However,  corporations  with  a  short  tax  year  that  began  before January 1, 2026, and ends on June 30, 2026, must file by September 15, 2026. A corporation with a short tax year ending anytime in June will be  treated  as  if  the  short  year  ended  on  June 30.

Form 7004 is used to request an automatic 6-month  extension  of  time  to  file  Form  1120. However,  corporations  with  a  fiscal  tax  year ending June 30, or a short tax year treated as if the short year ended June 30 that begins before January 1, 2026, will use Form 7004 to request an  automatic  7-month  extension  of  time  to  file Form 1120.

Form  1120-S  (or  Form  7004). This  form  is due on the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the corporation's tax year. Provide each shareholder  with  a  copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1 (Form 1120-S) or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S) by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the corporation's tax year. Form 7004 is used to request an automatic 6-month extension of time to file Form 1120-S.

Estimated  tax  payments. Payments  are  due on  the  15th  day  of  the  4th,  6th,  9th,  and  12th months of the corporation's tax year.

Form 2553. This form is used to choose S corporation  treatment.  It  is  due  no  more  than  2 months and 15 days after the beginning of the tax  year  the  election  is  to  take  effect  or  at  any time during the preceding tax year.

## Employer's Tax Calendar

This  tax  calendar  covers  various  due  dates  of interest  to  employers.  Principally,  it  covers  the following federal taxes.

- Social security and Medicare taxes (FICA taxes) you withhold from your employees' wages and the social security and Medicare taxes you must pay as an employer.
- Income tax you withhold from your employees' wages or from nonpayroll amounts you pay out.
- Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax you must pay as an employer.

The calendar lists due dates for filing returns and  for  making  deposits  of  these  three  taxes throughout the year. Use this calendar with Pub. 15, which gives the deposit rules.

Forms you may need. The  following  is  a  list and description of the primary employment tax forms you may need.

1. Form 940, Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report the FUTA tax on wages you paid.
2. Form 941, Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar quarter ends. Use it to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income taxes on wages if your employees aren't farm workers or household employees.
3. Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax Return for Agricultural Employees. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income taxes on wages if your employees are farm workers.
4. Form 944, Employer's ANNUAL Federal Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Certain small employers use it instead of Form 941 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax.
5. Form 945, Annual Return of Withheld Federal Income Tax. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report income tax withheld on all nonpayroll items. A list of nonpayroll items is available in the Instructions for Form 945.

Fiscal-year  taxpayers. The  dates  in  this  calendar apply whether you use a fiscal year or the calendar year as your tax year. The only excep- tion is the date for filing forms in the Form 5500 series,  for  example,  Forms  5500,  Annual  Return/Report of Employee  Benefit Plan, and 5500-EZ,  Annual  Return  of  A  One-Participant (Owners/Partners  and  Their  Spouses)  Retirement Plan or A Foreign Plan. These employee benefit plan forms are due by the last day of the seventh month after the plan year ends. See All employers under July 31, later. For more information  on  filing  these  forms,  go  to IRS.gov/ Form5500 .

Extended due dates. If  you  timely  deposit  in full  the  tax  you're  required  to  report  on  Form 940, 941, 943, 944, or 945, you may file the return by the 10th day of the 2nd month that follows the end of the return period.

Caution: If  you're  subject  to  the  semiweekly deposit  rule,  use  Table  2  near  the  end  of  this publication  for  your  deposit  due  dates.  However,  if  you  accumulate  $100,000  or  more  of taxes  on  any  day  during  a  deposit  period,  you must deposit the tax by the next business day instead of the date shown in Table 2.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## During January

All employers. Give your employees their copies of Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2025  by  February  2,  2026.  If  the  employee agreed to receive Form W-2 electronically, have it  posted on a website and notify the employee of the posting.

## January 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in December 2025.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in December 2025.

## February 2

All employers. Give your employees their copies of Form W-2 for 2025. If an employee agreed  to  receive  Form  W-2  electronically, have  it  posted  on  a  website  and  notify  the employee of the posting.

File Form W-3, Transmittal of Wage and Tax Statements, along with Copy A of all the Forms W-2 you issued for 2025.

Payers of nonemployee compensation. File  Form  1099-NEC  for  nonemployee compensation paid in 2025.

Payers of gambling winnings. If  you  either  paid  reportable  gambling  winnings  or withheld income tax from gambling winnings, give the winners their copies of Form W-2G.

Nonpayroll taxes. File Form 945 to report income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpayroll  items,  including  backup  withholding  and withholding on pensions, annuities, IRAs, gambling  winnings,  and  payments  of  Indian gaming profits to tribal members. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed return.  If  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely,  properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until February 10 to file the return.

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File  Form  941  for  the  fourth quarter of 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly, and in full, you have until February 10 to file the return.

Certain small employers. File  Form  944 to  report  social  security  and  Medicare  taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of  deposits rule. If your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2025 but less than $2,500 for the fourth quarter, deposit any undeposited tax or pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full, you have until February 10 to file the return.

Farm employers. File Form 943 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited  tax  under  the  accuracy  of  deposits  rule.  If  your  tax  liability  is  less  than $2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed return.  If  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely,  properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until February 10 to file the return.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. File Form 940 for 2025. If your undeposited tax is $500 or less, you can either pay it with your return  or  deposit  it.  If  it  is  more  than  $500, you  must  deposit  it.  However,  if  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year  timely,  properly,  and in  full,  you  have  until  February  10  to  file  the return.

## February 10

Nonpayroll taxes. File Form 945 to report income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpayroll  items.  This  due  date  applies  only  if  you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File  Form  941  for  the  fourth quarter of 2025. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

Certain small employers. File  Form  944 to  report  social  security  and  Medicare  taxes and  withheld  income  tax  for  2025.  This  due date applies only if you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Farm employers. File Form 943 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. This due date applies only if you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. File Form  940  for  2025.  This  due  date  applies only  if  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely, properly, and in full.

## February 17

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in January.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in January.

## February 18

All  employers. Begin withholding income tax from the pay of  any  employee  who claimed exemption from withholding in 2025, but didn't give you Form W-4 to continue the exemption this year.

## March 2

Payers of gambling winnings. File Form 1096  along  with  Copy  A  of  all  the  Forms W-2G you issued for 2025.

If  you  file  Forms  W-2G  electronically,  your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31. The due date for giving the recipient these forms remains February 2.

Health coverage reporting to IRS. If you're an Applicable Large Employer, file paper Forms 1094-C, Transmittal of Employer-Provided  Health  Insurance  Offer  and Coverage  Information  Returns,  and  1095-C with  the  IRS.  For  all  other  providers  of  minimum  essential  coverage,  file  paper  Forms 1094-B, Transmittal of Health Coverage Information Returns, and 1095-B with the IRS. If you're  filing  any  of  these  forms  with  the  IRS electronically,  your  due  date  for  filing  them will  be  extended  to  March  31.  See  the  Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B, and the Instructions for Forms 1094-C and 1095-C for more information about the information reporting requirements.

Large  food  and  beverage  establishment employers. File Form 8027, Employer's Annual Information Return of Tip Income and Allocated Tips. Use Form 8027-T, Transmittal of  Employer's  Annual  Information  Return  of Tip Income and Allocated Tips, to summarize and  transmit  paper  Forms  8027  if  you  have more than one establishment.

If  you  file  Forms  8027  electronically,  your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31.

Health  coverage  reporting  to  employees.

If you're an Applicable Large Employer, provide Form 1095-C, Employer-Provided Health Insurance  Offer  and  Coverage,  to full-time employees. For all other providers of minimum  essential  coverage,  provide  Form 1095-B,  Health  Coverage,  to  responsible  individuals. See  the Instructions for  Forms 1094-B and 1095-B, and the Instructions for

Forms 1094-C and 1095-C for more information  about  the  information  reporting  requirements.

## March 16

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in February.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in February.

## March 31

Electronic  filing  of  Forms  W-2G. File copies of all the Forms W-2G you issued for 2025. This due date applies only if you electronically file. Otherwise, see Payers of gambling winnings under March 2, earlier.

The due date for  giving  the  recipient  these forms remains February 2.

For  information  about  filing  Forms  W-2G electronically, see Pub. 1220.

Electronic filing of  Forms  8027. File Forms 8027 for 2025. This due date applies only  if  you  electronically  file.  Otherwise,  see Large food and beverage establishment employers under March 2, earlier.

## Electronic filing of Forms 1094-C and 1095-C  and  Forms  1094-B  and  1095-B.

If you're an Applicable Large Employer, file electronic Forms 1094-C and 1095-C with the  IRS.  For  all  other  providers  of  minimum essential coverage, file electronic Forms 1094-B and 1095-B with the IRS. Otherwise, see Health  coverage  reporting  to  IRS under March 2, earlier.

## Second Quarter

The  second  quarter  is  made  up  of  April,  May, and June.

## April 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in March.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in March.

Household  employers. If  you  paid  cash wages of $2,800 or more in 2025 to a household  employee,  you  must  file  Schedule  H (Form 1040). If you're required to file a federal income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR), file Schedule H (Form 1040) with the return and report any household employment  taxes.  Report  any  federal  unemployment (FUTA) tax on Schedule H (Form 1040) if  you  paid  total  cash  wages  of  $1,000  or more in any calendar quarter of 2024 or 2025 to household employees. Also, report any income  tax  you  withheld  for  your  household employees.  For  more  information,  see  Pub. 926.

## April 30

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  first quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and in full, you have until May 11 to file the return.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit  the  tax  owed  through  March  if  more than $500.

## May 11

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  first quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## May 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in April.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in April.

## June 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in May.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in May.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in June.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in June.

## July 31

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File Form 941 for the second quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until  August  10  to file the return.

Certain  small  employers. Deposit any undeposited tax if your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2026 but less than $2,500 for the second quarter.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit the tax owed through June if more than $500.

All  employers. If  you  maintain  an  employee benefit plan, such as a pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan, file Form 5500  or  5500-EZ  for  calendar  year  2025.  If you  use  a  fiscal  year  as  your  plan  year,  file the form by the last day of the seventh month after the plan year ends. For more information on filing these forms, go to IRS.gov/ Form5500 .

## August 10

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File Form 941 for the second quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## August 17

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in July.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in July.

## September 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in August.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in August.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in September.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in September.

## During November

Income tax withholding. Encourage employees to fill out a new Form W-4 for 2027 if they  experienced  any  personal  or  financial changes. Examples of changes that could require a new Form W-4 include changing the filing  status  on  a  tax  return,  changing  the number of jobs worked during the year, and other  income,  deductions,  or  credits.  The 2027 revision of Form W-4 will be available at IRS.gov/FormW4 by  mid-December. Encourage your employees to use the IRS Tax Withholding Estimator available at IRS.gov/ W4App .

## November 2

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  third quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until  November  10 to file the return.

Certain  small  employers. Deposit any undeposited tax if your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2026 but less than $2,500 for the third quarter.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit the tax owed through September if more than $500.

## November 10

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  third quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## November 16

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in October.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in October.

## December 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in November.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in November.

## Excise Tax Calendar

This tax calendar gives the due dates for filing returns  and  making  deposits  of  excise  taxes. Use this calendar with Pub. 510. Also, see the instructions for Forms 11-C, 720, 730, and 2290 for more information.

Forms you may need. The  following  is  a  list and description of the excise tax forms you may need.

1. Form 11-C, Occupational Tax and Registration Return for Wagering. Use this form

to register any wagering activity and to pay an occupational tax on wagering. File Form 11-C if you're in the business of accepting wagers, including conducting a wagering pool or lottery, or are an agent of someone who accepts wagers. You must file the form before you begin accepting wagers. After that, file the form by July 1 of each year. Also, see Form 730 below.

2. Form 720, Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return. File this form by the last day of the month following the calendar quarter. Use this form to report a wide variety of excise taxes, including:
- a. Environmental taxes,
- b. Communications and air transportation taxes,
- c. Fuel taxes,
- d. Retail tax,
- e. Ship passenger tax, and
- f. Manufacturers taxes.
3. Form 730, Monthly Tax Return for Wagers. Use this form to pay an excise tax on wagers you accept. File this form for each month by the last day of the following month. Also, see Form 11-C above.
4. Form 2290, Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax Return. Use this form to pay the federal use tax on heavy highway vehicles registered in your name. File this form by the last day of the month following the month of the vehicle's first taxable use in the tax period. The tax period begins on July 1 and ends the following June 30. You must pay the full year's tax on all vehicles you have in use during the month of July. You must also pay a partial-year tax on taxable vehicles that you put into use in a month after July. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 2290.

Fiscal-year  taxpayers. The  dates  in  this  calendar apply whether you use a fiscal year or the calendar year as your tax year.

Adjustments for Saturday, Sunday, or legal holidays. Generally,  if  a  due  date  falls  on  a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is  delayed  until  the  next  day  that  isn't  a  Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For excise taxes, there are two exceptions to this rule.

- Under the special September deposit rules , if the due date falls on a Saturday, the deposit is due on the preceding Friday. If the due date falls on a Sunday, the deposit is due on the following Monday. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 720.
- For deposits of regular method taxes , if the due date is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is the immediately preceding day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

The Excise Tax Calendar has been adjusted for all of these provisions.

Regular method taxes. These are taxes, other  than  alternative  method  taxes  used  for communication  and  air  transportation taxes,

reported on Form 720 for which deposits are required.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## January 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of December 2025.

## January 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of December 2025.

## January 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of December 2025.

## January 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of January.

## February 2

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the fourth quarter of 2025.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax  on  wagers  accepted  during  December 2025.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in December 2025.

## February 11

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  first  15  days  of  January.

## February 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of January.

## February 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  last  16  days  of  January.

## February 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of February.

## March 2

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during January.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in January.

## March 11

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of Febru- ary.

## March 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 13 days of February.

## March 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 13 days of February.

## March 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of March.

## March 31

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during February.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in February.

## Second Quarter

The second quarter of a calendar year is made up of April, May, and June.

## April 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of March.

## April 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of March.

## April 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of March.

## April 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of April.

## April 30

Form 720 taxes. File Form 720 for the first quarter of 2026.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during March.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in March.

## May 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of April.

## May 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of April.

## May 28

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of April.

## May 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of May.

## June 1

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during April.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in April.

## June 10

Communications and air transportation tickets sold during the first 15 days of May.

taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

## June 12

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of May.

## June 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of May.

## June 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of June.

## June 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during May.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in May.

Floor stocks tax for ozone-depleting chemicals  (IRS  No.  20). Deposit  the  tax  for January 1, 2026.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 1

Occupational excise taxes. File Form 11-C  to  register  and  pay  the  annual  tax  if you're in the business of accepting wagers.

## July 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of June.

## July 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of June.

## July 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of June.

## July 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of July.

## July 31

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the second quarter of 2026.

Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (PCOR) Fee. File Form 720 annually to report and pay the fee on the second quarter Form 720 no later than July 31 of the calendar year immediately following the last day of the policy year or plan year to which the fee applies. If you file Form 720 only to report the fee,  don't  file  Form  720  for  the  first,  third,  or fourth quarters of the year.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during June.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in June.

## August 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of July.

## August 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of July.

## August 26

Communications and air transportation tickets sold during the last 16 days of July.

taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

## August 28

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of August.

## August 31

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the full year's tax on all vehicles you have in use during the month of July.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during July.

## September 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of August.

## September 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of August.

## September 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of August.

## September 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of September.

Regular  method  taxes  (special  September deposit  rule). Deposit  the  tax  for  the period  beginning  September  16  and  ending September 26.

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method (special September deposit rule). Deposit the  tax  included  in  amounts  billed  or  tickets sold  during  the  period  beginning  September 1 and ending September 11.

## September 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during August.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in August.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 13

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method (special September deposit rule). Deposit the  tax  included  in  amounts  billed  or  tickets sold  during  the  period  beginning  September 12 and ending September 15.

## October 14

Regular  method  taxes  (special  September deposit  rule). Deposit  the  tax  for  the last 4 days of September.

## October 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  last  15  days  of  September.

## October 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of October.

## November 2

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the third quarter of 2026.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during September.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in September.

## November 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  first  15  days  of  October.

## November 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of October.

## November 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

tickets  sold  during  the  last  16  days  of  October.

## November 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of November.

## November 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during October.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in October.

## December 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Table 2. Due Dates for Electronic Funds Transfer of Taxes for 2026 Under the Semiweekly Rule

| First Quarter:   | First Quarter:   | Second Quarter:   | Second Quarter:   | Third Quarter:   | Third Quarter:   | Fourth Quarter:   | Fourth Quarter:   |
|------------------|------------------|-------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| Payroll Date     | Due Date         | Payroll Date      | Due Date          | Payroll Date     | Due Date         | Payroll Date      | Due Date          |
| Jan. 1-2         | Jan. 7           | Apr. 1-3          | Apr. 8            | July 1-3         | July 8           | Oct. 1-2          | Oct. 7            |
| Jan. 3-6         | Jan. 9           | Apr. 4-7          | Apr. 10           | July 4-7         | July 10          | Oct. 3-6          | Oct. 9            |
| Jan. 7-9         | Jan. 14          | Apr. 8-10         | Apr. 15           | July 8-10        | July 15          | Oct. 7-9          | Oct. 15           |
| Jan. 10-13       | Jan. 16          | Apr. 11-14        | Apr. 20           | July 11-14       | July 17          | Oct. 10-13        | Oct. 16           |
| Jan. 14-16       | Jan. 22          | Apr. 15-17        | Apr. 22           | July 15-17       | July 22          | Oct. 14-16        | Oct. 21           |
| Jan. 17-20       | Jan. 23          | Apr. 18-21        | Apr. 24           | July 18-21       | July 24          | Oct. 17-20        | Oct. 23           |
| Jan. 21-23       | Jan. 28          | Apr. 22-24        | Apr. 29           | July 22-24       | July 29          | Oct. 21-23        | Oct. 28           |
| Jan. 24-27       | Jan. 30          | Apr. 25-28        | May 1             | July 25-28       | July 31          | Oct. 24-27        | Oct. 30           |
| Jan. 28-30       | Feb. 4           | Apr. 29-May 1     | May 6             | July 29-31       | Aug. 5           | Oct. 28-30        | Nov. 4            |
| Jan. 31- Feb. 3  | Feb. 6           | May 2-5           | May 8             | Aug. 1-4         | Aug. 7           | Oct. 31-Nov. 3    | Nov. 6            |
| Feb. 4-6         | Feb. 11          | May 6-8           | May 13            | Aug. 5-7         | Aug. 12          | Nov. 4-6          | Nov. 12           |
| Feb. 7-10        | Feb. 13          | May 9-12          | May 15            | Aug. 8-11        | Aug. 14          | Nov. 7-10         | Nov. 16           |
| Feb. 11-13       | Feb. 19          | May 13-15         | May 20            | Aug. 12-14       | Aug. 19          | Nov. 11-13        | Nov. 18           |
| Feb. 14-17       | Feb. 20          | May 16-19         | May 22            | Aug. 15-18       | Aug. 21          | Nov. 14-17        | Nov. 20           |
| Feb. 18-20       | Feb. 25          | May 20-22         | May 28            | Aug. 19-21       | Aug. 26          | Nov. 18-20        | Nov. 25           |
| Feb. 21-24       | Feb. 27          | May 23-26         | May 29            | Aug. 22-25       | Aug. 28          | Nov. 21-24        | Nov. 30           |
| Feb. 25-27       | Mar. 4           | May 27-29         | June 3            | Aug. 26-28       | Sept. 2          | Nov. 25-27        | Dec. 2            |
| Feb. 28-Mar. 3   | Mar. 6           | May 30-June 2     | June 5            | Aug. 29-Sept. 1  | Sept. 4          | Nov. 28-Dec. 1    | Dec. 4            |
| Mar. 4-6         | Mar. 11          | June 3-5          | June 10           | Sept. 2-4        | Sept. 10         | Dec. 2-4          | Dec. 9            |
| Mar. 7-10        | Mar. 13          | June 6-9          | June 12           | Sept. 5-8        | Sept. 11         | Dec. 5-8          | Dec. 11           |
| Mar. 11-13       | Mar. 18          | June 10-12        | June 17           | Sept. 9-11       | Sept. 16         | Dec. 9-11         | Dec. 16           |
| Mar. 14-17       | Mar. 20          | June 13-16        | June 22           | Sept. 12-15      | Sept. 18         | Dec. 12-15        | Dec. 18           |
| Mar. 18-20       | Mar. 25          | June 17-19        | June 24           | Sept. 16-18      | Sept. 23         | Dec. 16-18        | Dec. 23           |
| Mar. 21-24       | Mar. 27          | June 20-23        | June 26           | Sept. 19-22      | Sept. 25         | Dec. 19-22        | Dec. 28           |
| Mar. 25-27       | Apr. 1           | June 24-26        | July 1            | Sept. 23-25      | Sept. 30         | Dec. 23-25        | Dec. 30           |
| Mar. 28-31       | Apr. 3           | June 27-30        | July 6            | Sept. 26-29      | Oct. 2           | Dec. 26-29        | Jan. 4            |
|                  |                  |                   |                   | Sept. 30         | Oct. 7           | Dec. 30-31        | Jan. 6            |

Note. This calendar reflects all legal holidays.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of November.

## December 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of November.

## December 28

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of November.

## December 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of December.

## December 31

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during November.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in November.

## How To Get Tax Help

If  you  have  questions  about  a  tax  issue;  need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to  IRS.gov  to  find  resources  that  can  help  you right away.

Tax  reform. Tax  reform  legislation  impacting federal taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P .L. 119-21, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for  more  information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.

Preparing  and  filing  your  tax  return. After receiving  all  your  wage  and  earnings  statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation statements  (by  mail  or  in  a  digital  format)  or other  government  payment  statements  (Form 1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement statements  from  banks  and  investment  firms (Forms  1099),  you  have  several  options  to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You  can  prepare  the  tax  return  yourself,  see  if you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to prepare your return.

Free  options  for  tax  preparation. Your  options  for  preparing  and  filing  your  return  online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

- VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/VITA , download the free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.
- Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
- TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which  can  be  completed  online  and  then e-filed regardless of income.

- MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to MilitaryOneSource ( MilitaryOneSource.mil/ MilTax ).

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

- The Online EIN Application ( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no cost.
- The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant ( IRS.gov/EITCAssistant ) determines if you're eligible for the earned income credit (EITC).
- The Tax Withholding Estimator ( IRS.gov/ W4App ) makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
- The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator ( IRS.gov/SalesTax ) figures the amount you can claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes in tax law.

- IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
- IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.
- IRS.gov/Forms : Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your questions.
- You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

## Need someone to prepare your tax return?

- Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

There are various types of tax return preparers, including  enrolled  agents,  certified  public  accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others  who  don't  have  professional  credentials.  If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,  choose  that  preparer  wisely.  A  paid  tax preparer is:

- Required to sign the return, and
- Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs  the  return,  you're  ultimately  responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for  the  accuracy  of  every  item  reported  on  the return.  Anyone  paid  to  prepare  tax  returns  for others should have a thorough understanding of tax  matters.  For  more  information  on  how  to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers  can  register  to  use  Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration  (SSA)  offers  online  service  at SSA.gov/ employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options  to  CPAs,  accountants,  enrolled  agents, and  individuals  who  process  Form  W-2,  and Form  W-2c,  Corrected  Wage  and  Tax  Statement.

Business tax account. If  you  are  a  sole  proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation,  or  a  single-member  limited  liability company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/ BusinessAccount for more information.

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to  see  the  various  social  media  tools  the  IRS uses  to  share  the  latest  information  on  tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services.  At  the  IRS,  privacy  and  security  are our highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don't post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential information  on  social  media  sites.  Always  protect  your  identity  when  using  any  social  networking site.

- Youtube.com/irsvideos .

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.

- Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua .
- Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .

Online  tax  information  in  other  languages. You can find information on IRS.gov/ MyLanguage if  English  isn't  your  native  language.

Over-the-Phone  Interpreter  (OPI)  Service. The  IRS  offers  the  OPI  Service  to  taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs),  most  IRS  offices,  and  every  VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish,  Mandarin,  Cantonese,  Korean,  Vietnamese, Russian, and Haitian Creole.

Accessibility  Helpline  available  for  taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information  about  accessibility  services  can  call 833-690-0598.  The  Accessibility  Helpline  can answer questions related  to  current  and  future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready,  large  print,  audio,  etc.).  The  Accessibility Helpline doesn't have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/ LetUsHelp .

Alternative  media  preference. Form  9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

- Large Print.
- Standard Print.
- Braille.
- Plain Text File (TXT).
- Audio (MP3).
- Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to  review the available disaster tax relief.

Getting  tax  forms  and  publications. Go  to IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print most of  the  forms,  instructions, and publications you

may need. Or you can go to IRS.gov/ OrderForms to place an order.

Mobile-friendly  forms. You'll  need  an  IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s) online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of your documents to support your submission. Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.

Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook  format. Download  and  view  most  tax publications and  instructions (including  Pub. 509) on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/ eBooks .

IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven't been tested  on  other  dedicated  eBook  readers,  and eBook  functionality  may  not  operate  as  intended.

Access your online account (individual taxpayers  only). Go  to IRS.gov/Account to  securely access information about your federal tax account.

- See payment plan details or apply for a new payment plan.
- View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
- Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
- View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
- Access your tax records, including key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
- Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You can get a transcript,  review  your  most  recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/Account .

Tax  Pro  Account. This  tool  lets  your  tax  professional submit an authorization request to access  your  individual  taxpayer  IRS  OLA.  For more information, go to IRS.gov/ TaxProAccount .

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way  to  receive  a  tax  refund  is  to e-file and choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight  in  10  taxpayers  use  direct  deposit  to  receive their refunds. If you don't have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for  more information  on  where  to  find  a  bank  or  credit union that can open an account online.

## Reporting  and  resolving  your  tax-related identity theft issues.

- Tax-related identity theft happens when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be af-

fected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

- The IRS doesn't initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
- Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN .
- Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft , the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you're a victim of tax-related identity theft, you can learn what steps you should take.

## Ways to check on the status of your refund.

- Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
- Go to IRS.gov/Refunds .
- Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

Caution: The  IRS  can't  issue  refunds  before mid-February for returns that claimed the EITC or  the  additional  child  tax  credit  (ACTC).  This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying  electronically  whenever  possible.  Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to the  IRS  in  U.S.  dollars. Digital  assets are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

- Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet : Choose an approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
- IRS Direct Pay : Pay taxes from your bank account. It's free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
- Electronic Funds Withdrawal : Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
- Check or Money Order : Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
- Electronic Federal Tax Payment System : This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
- Cash : You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
- Same-Day Wire : You may be able to do same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology  to  ensure  that  the  electronic  payments you  make  online,  by  phone,  or  from  a  mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

What  if  I  can't  pay  now? Go  to IRS.gov/ Payments for  more  information  about  your  options.

- Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC .
- Apply for an online payment agreement ( IRS.gov/OPA ) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can't pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.

Filing  an  amended  return. Go  to IRS.gov/ 1040X for information and updates.

Checking  the  status  of  your  amended  return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to  track  the  status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

Caution: It  can  take  up  to  3  weeks  from  the date  you  filed  your  amended  return  for  it  to show  up  in  our  system,  and  processing  it  can take up to 16 weeks.

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you've received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional  information  about  responding  to  an IRS notice or letter.

IRS  Document  Upload  Tool. You  may  be able  to  use  the  Document  Upload  Tool  to  respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online  through  IRS.gov.  For  more  information,  go to IRS.gov/DUT .

Schedule  LEP . You  can  use  Schedule  LEP (Form 1040), Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices,  letters,  or  other  written  communications from  the  IRS  in  an  alternative  language.  You may not immediately receive written communications  in  the  requested  language.  The  IRS's commitment  to  LEP  taxpayers  is  part  of  a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications,  including  notices  and  letters,  in English until  they  are  translated  to  your  preferred language.

Contacting  your  local  TAC. Keep  in  mind, many  questions  can  be  answered  on  IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue  can't  be  handled  online  or  by  phone.  All TACs now provide  service  by  appointment,  so you'll  know  in  advance  that  you  can  get  the service  you  need  without  long  wait  times.  Before  you  visit,  go  to IRS.gov/TAC to  find  the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or on the IRS2Go  app,  under  the  Stay  Connected  tab,

choose the Contact Us option and click on 'Local Offices.'

-------------------

Below  is  a  message  to  you  from  the  Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

## The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) Is Here To Help You

## What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an in­ dependent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent or  correct  the  problems,  and  protects  taxpayer rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

## How Can TAS Help Me?

TAS  can  help  you  resolve  problems  that  you haven't  been  able  to  resolve  with  the  IRS  on your  own.  Always  try  to  resolve  your  problem with the IRS first, but if you can't, then come to TAS. Our services are free .

- To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov . The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if you get a notice from the IRS.
- TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS problem is causing financial difficulty, if you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should.
- TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at

www.IRS.gov/SAMS . (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

## How Do I Contact TAS?

TAS  has  offices  in  every  state,  the  District  of Columbia,  and  Puerto  Rico.  To  find  your  local advocate's number:

- Check your local directory, or
- Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/ Contact-Us ,
- Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

## What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/ Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply  to  specific  situations  you  may  encounter with  the  IRS.  TAS  strives  to  protect  taxpayer rights  and  ensure  the  IRS  is  administering  the tax law in a fair and equitable way.

## Tables

### Table 1

| 0 |
| --- |
| Background Information for Using |
| the Tax Calendars . . . . . . . . . . . 2 |
| General Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 |
| Second Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Employer's Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . 6 First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 |
| Excise Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 |
| Second Quarter 9 |
| . . . . . . . . . . . . . |
| Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 |
| Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 |
| To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 |
| How |

### Table 2

| IF you're... | THEN you may need... |
| --- | --- |
| an employer | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-A, Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-B, Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits. • Pub. 15-T, Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods. • Pub. 926, Household Employer's Tax Guide. |
| a farmer | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 225, Farmer's Tax Guide. |
| an individual | • Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax. |
| required to pay excise taxes | • Pub. 510, Excise Taxes. |

### Table 3

| First Quarter:.Payroll Date | First Quarter:.Due Date | Second Quarter:.Payroll Date | Second Quarter:.Due Date | Third Quarter:.Payroll Date | Third Quarter:.Due Date | Fourth Quarter:.Payroll Date | Fourth Quarter:.Due Date |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Jan. 1-2 | Jan. 7 | Apr. 1-3 | Apr. 8 | July 1-3 | July 8 | Oct. 1-2 | Oct. 7 |
| Jan. 3-6 | Jan. 9 | Apr. 4-7 | Apr. 10 | July 4-7 | July 10 | Oct. 3-6 | Oct. 9 |
| Jan. 7-9 | Jan. 14 | Apr. 8-10 | Apr. 15 | July 8-10 | July 15 | Oct. 7-9 | Oct. 15 |
| Jan. 10-13 | Jan. 16 | Apr. 11-14 | Apr. 20 | July 11-14 | July 17 | Oct. 10-13 | Oct. 16 |
| Jan. 14-16 | Jan. 22 | Apr. 15-17 | Apr. 22 | July 15-17 | July 22 | Oct. 14-16 | Oct. 21 |
| Jan. 17-20 | Jan. 23 | Apr. 18-21 | Apr. 24 | July 18-21 | July 24 | Oct. 17-20 | Oct. 23 |
| Jan. 21-23 | Jan. 28 | Apr. 22-24 | Apr. 29 | July 22-24 | July 29 | Oct. 21-23 | Oct. 28 |
| Jan. 24-27 | Jan. 30 | Apr. 25-28 | May 1 | July 25-28 | July 31 | Oct. 24-27 | Oct. 30 |
| Jan. 28-30 | Feb. 4 | Apr. 29-May 1 | May 6 | July 29-31 | Aug. 5 | Oct. 28-30 | Nov. 4 |
| Jan. 31- Feb. 3 | Feb. 6 | May 2-5 | May 8 | Aug. 1-4 | Aug. 7 | Oct. 31-Nov. 3 | Nov. 6 |
| Feb. 4-6 | Feb. 11 | May 6-8 | May 13 | Aug. 5-7 | Aug. 12 | Nov. 4-6 | Nov. 12 |
| Feb. 7-10 | Feb. 13 | May 9-12 | May 15 | Aug. 8-11 | Aug. 14 | Nov. 7-10 | Nov. 16 |
| Feb. 11-13 | Feb. 19 | May 13-15 | May 20 | Aug. 12-14 | Aug. 19 | Nov. 11-13 | Nov. 18 |
| Feb. 14-17 | Feb. 20 | May 16-19 | May 22 | Aug. 15-18 | Aug. 21 | Nov. 14-17 | Nov. 20 |
| Feb. 18-20 | Feb. 25 | May 20-22 | May 28 | Aug. 19-21 | Aug. 26 | Nov. 18-20 | Nov. 25 |
| Feb. 21-24 | Feb. 27 | May 23-26 | May 29 | Aug. 22-25 | Aug. 28 | Nov. 21-24 | Nov. 30 |
| Feb. 25-27 | Mar. 4 | May 27-29 | June 3 | Aug. 26-28 | Sept. 2 | Nov. 25-27 | Dec. 2 |
| Feb. 28-Mar. 3 | Mar. 6 | May 30-June 2 | June 5 | Aug. 29-Sept. 1 | Sept. 4 | Nov. 28-Dec. 1 | Dec. 4 |
| Mar. 4-6 | Mar. 11 | June 3-5 | June 10 | Sept. 2-4 | Sept. 10 | Dec. 2-4 | Dec. 9 |
| Mar. 7-10 | Mar. 13 | June 6-9 | June 12 | Sept. 5-8 | Sept. 11 | Dec. 5-8 | Dec. 11 |
| Mar. 11-13 | Mar. 18 | June 10-12 | June 17 | Sept. 9-11 | Sept. 16 | Dec. 9-11 | Dec. 16 |
| Mar. 14-17 | Mar. 20 | June 13-16 | June 22 | Sept. 12-15 | Sept. 18 | Dec. 12-15 | Dec. 18 |
| Mar. 18-20 | Mar. 25 | June 17-19 | June 24 | Sept. 16-18 | Sept. 23 | Dec. 16-18 | Dec. 23 |
| Mar. 21-24 | Mar. 27 | June 20-23 | June 26 | Sept. 19-22 | Sept. 25 | Dec. 19-22 | Dec. 28 |
| Mar. 25-27 | Apr. 1 | June 24-26 | July 1 | Sept. 23-25 | Sept. 30 | Dec. 23-25 | Dec. 30 |
| Mar. 28-31 | Apr. 3 | June 27-30 | July 6 | Sept. 26-29 | Oct. 2 | Dec. 26-29 | Jan. 4 |
|  |  |  |  | Sept. 30 | Oct. 7 | Dec. 30-31 | Jan. 6 |

## Full Text

<!-- image -->

## Publication 509

## Tax Calendars

For use in 2026

<!-- image -->

## Contents

Introduction

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

1

| Background Information for Using                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| the Tax Calendars . . . . . . . . . . . 2                                                                                                                                                     |
| General Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . 3                                                                                                                                                |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4                                                                                                             |
| Second Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Employer's Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . 6 First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 |
| Excise Tax Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8                                                                                                                                               |
| First Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9                                                                                                                                                 |
| Second Quarter 9                                                                                                                                                                              |
| . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Third Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10                                                                                                                                                  |
| Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10                                                                                                                                                   |
| To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 12                                                                                                                                                    |
| How                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## Future Developments

For  the  latest  information  about  developments related to Pub. 509, such as legislation enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub509 .

## Reminders

Form  1099-NEC. Form  1099-NEC,  Nonemployee Compensation, is used to report nonemployee compensation.

Form  1040-SR. Form  1040-SR,  U.S.  Income Tax Return for Seniors, is a tax return for senior citizens.  For  tax  year  2025,  Form  1040-SR  is available to you if you were born before January 2, 1961. The form generally mirrors Form 1040.

Online IRS Tax Calendar. The IRS Tax Calendar is available online at IRS.gov/TaxCalendar . This  calendar  is  also  available  in  Spanish  and Chinese.

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a  proud  partner  with  the National  Center  for Missing &amp; Exploited Children® (NCMEC) . Photographs  of  missing  children  selected  by  the Center may appear in this publication on pages that  would  otherwise  be  blank.  You  can  help bring  these  children  home  by  looking  at  the photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

## Introduction

A tax calendar is a 12-month calendar divided into  quarters.  The  calendar  gives  specific  due dates for:

- Paying taxes, and
- Filing tax forms,
- Taking other actions required by federal tax law.

What  does  this  publication  contain? This publication contains the following.

1. A section on how to use the tax calendars.
2. Three tax calendars:
- a. General Tax Calendar,
- b. Employer's Tax Calendar, and
- c. Excise Tax Calendar.
3. A table showing the semiweekly deposit due dates for payroll taxes for 2026.

Most of the due dates discussed in this publication are also included in the online IRS Tax Calendar, available at IRS.gov/TaxCalendar . The online IRS Tax Calendar is also available in Spanish and Chinese.

Who should use this publication? Primarily, employers  need  to  use  this  publication.  However,  the General  Tax  Calendar ,  later,  has  important due dates for all businesses and individuals.  Anyone  who  must  pay  excise  taxes  may need the Excise Tax Calendar , later.

What are the advantages of using a tax calendar? The following are advantages of using a tax calendar.

- You can file or pay timely and avoid penalties.
- You don't have to figure the due dates yourself.
- You don't have to adjust the due dates for Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
- You don't have to adjust the due dates for special banking rules if you use the Employer's Tax Calendar or Excise Tax Calendar , later.

Which calendar(s) should I use? To  decide which calendar(s) to use, first look at the General Tax Calendar , later, and highlight the dates that apply to you. If you're an employer, also use the Employer's Tax Calendar ,  later.  If  you  must pay excise taxes, use the Excise Tax Calendar , later.  Depending  on  your  situation,  you  may need to use more than one calendar.

What other publications and tax forms will I need? Table 1 lists other publications you may need.  Each  calendar  lists  the  forms  you  may need.

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication  for  information  about  getting  publications and forms.

Forms,  instructions, and  publications in Spanish. Some forms, instructions , and publi-

Table 1. Useful Publications

| IF you're...                 | THEN you may need...                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| an employer                  | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-A, Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide. • Pub. 15-B, Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits. • Pub. 15-T, Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods. • Pub. 926, Household Employer's Tax Guide. |
| a farmer                     | • Pub. 15, Employer's Tax Guide. • Pub. 225, Farmer's Tax Guide.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| an individual                | • Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| required to pay excise taxes | • Pub. 510, Excise Taxes.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

cations discussed in this publication have Spanish-language  versions  available.  Some  examples  include  Form  1040  (sp),  Form  941  (sp), Form  W-4  (sp),  Form  2290  (sp),  and  Pub.  15 (sp). Although this publication doesn't reference Spanish-language forms, instructions, and publications in each instance that one is available, you can go to IRS.gov/SpanishForms to  determine if a Spanish-language version is available.

What  isn't  included  in  these  calendars? The  calendars  don't  cover  the  employment  or excise  tax  deposit  rules.  You  can  find  the  deposit  rules  for  employment  taxes  in  Pub.  15. The  deposit  rules  for  excise  taxes  are  in  Pub. 510 and in the Instructions for Form 720. In addition, the calendars don't cover filing forms and other requirements for:

- Gift taxes,
- Estate taxes,
- Trusts,
- Certain types of corporations,
- Exempt organizations,
- Foreign partnerships, or
- Nonresident aliens.

Comments  and  suggestions. We  welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.

Although  we  can't  respond  individually  to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will consider your comments and suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions,  and  publications. Don't send  tax  questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormComments .  Or  you  can  write  to the  Internal  Revenue  Service,  Tax  Forms  and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Getting  answers  to  your  tax  questions. If you have a tax question not answered by this publication or the How To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/ Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting tax forms, instructions, and pub­ lications. Go  to IRS.gov/Forms to  download current  and  prior-year  forms,  instructions,  and publications.

Ordering  tax  forms,  instructions,  and publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order  current  forms,  instructions,  and  publications; call 800-829-3676  to  order  prior-year forms  and  instructions.  The  IRS  will  process your  order  for  forms  and  publications  as  soon as possible. Don't resubmit requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

## Background Information for Using the Tax Calendars

The following brief explanations may be helpful to you in using the tax calendars.

Electronic  services  to  make  taxes  easier. Individuals and businesses can enjoy the benefits  of  filing  and paying their federal taxes electronically.  Whether you rely on a tax professional or handle your own taxes, the IRS offers you convenient programs to make taxes easier.

- Businesses can e-file certain business tax returns such as Forms 1120, 1120-S, and 1065; certain employment tax returns such as Forms 940 and 941; certain excise tax returns such as Forms 720, 2290, and 8849; and Form 1099 and other information returns. Go to IRS.gov/BusinessEfile for more information. Most businesses can make a variety of tax payments, including estimated tax payments, federal tax deposits, and paying a balance due on your return, using EFTPS, IRS Direct Pay, or your IRS business tax account. For more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov . Also see Electronic deposit requirement , later, for the EFTPS phone numbers. For more information about IRS Direct Pay, go to IRS.gov/ DirectPay . For more information about creating and accessing your IRS business tax account, go to IRS.gov/BusinessAccount .
- Individuals can e-file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR. For more information, see How To Get Tax Help , later, and go to IRS.gov/ Efile . Individuals can make a variety of tax payments, including estimated tax payments and paying a balance due on your return, using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), IRS Direct Pay, or your IRS individual tax account. For more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov . Also see Electronic deposit requirement , later, for the EFTPS phone numbers. For more information about IRS Direct Pay, go to IRS.gov/DirectPay . For more information about creating and accessing your IRS individual tax account, go to IRS.gov/ Account .

For  more  information  about  other  payment options, go to IRS.gov/Pay .

Tax  deposits. Some  taxes  can  be  paid  with the return on which they are reported. However, in many cases, you have to deposit the tax before the due date for filing the return. Tax deposits are figured for periods of time that are shorter than the time period covered by the return. See Pub.  15  for  the  employment  tax  deposit  rules. For the excise tax deposit rules, see Pub. 510 or the Instructions for Form 720.

Electronic deposit requirement. You must  use  electronic  funds  transfer  (EFT)  to make all federal tax deposits. Generally, an EFT is  made  using  EFTPS,  IRS  Direct  Pay,  or  your IRS business tax account. If you don't want to use one of these methods, you can arrange for your  tax  professional,  financial  institution,  payroll service, or other trusted third party to make electronic  deposits  on  your  behalf.  Also,  you may arrange for your financial institution to initiate  a  same-day wire payment on your behalf. EFTPS is a free service provided by the Department of the Treasury. Payments made using IRS Direct Pay or through your IRS business tax account are also free.  Services  provided  by  your tax professional, financial institution, payroll service, or other third party may have a fee.

For  more  information  about  IRS  Direct  Pay, go  to IRS.gov/DirectPay .  For  more  information about  making  an  EFT  through  your  IRS  business tax account, go to IRS.gov/ BusinessAccount .

To get more  information or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To  contact  EFTPS  using  Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, dial 711  and  then  provide  the  TRS  assistant  the 800-555-4477 number above or 800-733-4829. Additional information  about  EFTPS  is  also available in Pub. 966.

Caution: If you fail to timely, properly, and fully make your federal tax deposit, you may be subject  to  a  failure-to-deposit  penalty.  EFTPS  accepts same-day payments of $1 million or less if the payment is submitted before 3:00 p.m. Eastern time on a business day. If your payment is more than $1 million, you must submit the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the date the deposit is due.

Saturday,  Sunday,  or  legal  holiday. Generally, if a due date for performing any act for tax purposes  falls  on  a  Saturday,  Sunday,  or  legal holiday,  the  act  is  considered  to  be  performed timely  if  it  is  performed  no  later  than  the  next day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.  The  term  'legal  holiday'  means  any  legal holiday  in  the  District  of  Columbia.  The  calendars  provided  in  this  publication  make  the  adjustments  for  Saturdays,  Sundays,  and  legal holidays.  But  you  must  make  any  adjustments for statewide legal holidays, as discussed later.

Caution: An  exception  to  this  rule  for  certain excise taxes is noted later under the Excise Tax Calendar.

Legal holidays. Legal holidays occurring in 2026 are listed below.

- January 19-Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
- January 1-New Year's Day
- February 16-Washington's Birthday
- May 25-Memorial Day
- April 16-District of Columbia Emancipation Day
- June 19-Juneteenth National Independence Day
- September 7-Labor Day
- July 3-Independence Day (observed)
- October 12-Indigenous Peoples' Day (Columbus Day)
- November 11-Veterans Day
- December 25-Christmas Day
- November 26-Thanksgiving Day

Statewide  legal  holidays. In general,  a statewide legal holiday delays a due date for filing  a  return  only  if  the  IRS  office  where  you're required to file is located in that state. For individuals, a statewide legal holiday also delays a due date for filing a return for residents of that state. A statewide legal holiday doesn't delay a due date for making a federal tax deposit.

Penalties  and  Interest. Whenever  possible, you  should  take  action  before  the  listed  due date. If you're late, you may have to pay a penalty as well as interest on any overdue taxes.

Be sure to follow all the tax laws that apply to you. In addition to civil penalties, criminal penalties may be imposed for intentionally not paying taxes, for intentionally filing a false return, or for not filing a required return.

Use  of  private  delivery  services. You  can use  certain  private  delivery  services  (PDSs) designated by the IRS to meet the timely mailing  as  timely  filing/paying  rule  for  tax  returns and payments.

The  PDS  can  tell  you  how  to  get  written proof of the mailing date.

Go  to IRS.gov/PDS for  the  current  list  of designated PDSs. For the IRS mailing address to  use  if  you're  using  a  PDS,  go  to IRS.gov/ PDSstreetAddresses . Select the mailing  address listed on the webpage that is in the same state  as  the  address  to  which  you  would  mail the  return  without  a  payment,  as  shown  in  the instructions for your tax return.

Caution: PDSs  can't deliver items to P.O. boxes. You must use the U.S. Postal Service to mail any item to an IRS P .O. box address.

## General Tax Calendar

This  tax  calendar  has  the  due  dates  for  2026 that  most  taxpayers  will  need.  Employers  and persons who pay excise taxes should also use the Employer's Tax Calendar and the Excise Tax Calendar , later.

Fiscal-year taxpayers. If  you file your income tax return for a fiscal year rather than the calendar year, you must change some of the dates in this calendar. These changes are described under Fiscal-Year Taxpayers at the end of this calendar.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## January 12

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during December, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531, Reporting  Tip  Income,  for  more  information on how to report tips to your employer.

## January 15

Individuals. Make a payment of your estimated tax for 2025 if you didn't pay your income tax for the year through withholding (or didn't pay in enough tax that way). See Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically.  This  is  the  final  installment  date  for 2025 estimated tax payments. However, you don't  have  to  make  this  payment  if  you  file your 2025 return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) and pay all tax due by February 2, 2026.

Farmers  and  fishermen. Pay  your  estimated  tax  for  2025.  See  Form  1040-ES  for more information, including how to make estimated tax payments electronically. You have until April 15 to file your 2025 income tax return  (Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR).  If  you don't pay your estimated tax by January 15, you must file your 2025 return and pay all tax due by March 2, 2026, to avoid an estimated tax penalty.

## February 2

Individuals  who  must  make  estimated  tax payments. If you didn't pay your last installment of estimated tax by January 15, you may choose (but aren't required) to file your income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) for 2025 by February 2. Filing your return  and  paying  all  tax  due  by  February  2 prevents any penalty for late payment of the last installment. If you can't file and pay your tax  by  February  2,  file  and  pay  your  tax  by April 15.

- All  businesses. Give  annual  information statements to recipients of certain payments you made during 2025. You can use the appropriate version of Form 1099 or other information return. Form 1099 can be issued electronically  with  the  consent  of  the  recipient. Payments  that  may  be  covered  include  the following.
- Compensation for workers who aren't considered employees (including fishing boat proceeds to crew members).
- Cash payments for fish (or other aquatic life) purchased from anyone engaged in the trade or business of catching fish.
- Dividends and other corporate distributions.
- Rent.
- Interest.
- Royalties.
- Profit-sharing distributions.
- Payments of Indian gaming profits to tribal members.
- Retirement plan distributions.
- Prizes and awards.
- Original issue discount.
- Medical and health care payments.
- Cash payments over $10,000. See the Instructions for Form 8300.
- Debt cancellation (treated as payment to debtor).

See the General Instructions for Certain Information  Returns for  information  on  what payments  are  covered,  how  much  the  payment must be before a statement is required,

which  form  to  use,  when  to  file,  and  extensions  of  time  to  provide  statements  to  the IRS.  Form  1099-B,  Proceeds  From  Broker and Barter Exchange  Transactions; Form 1099-S, Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions; and certain reporting on Form 1099-MISC,  Miscellaneous  Information,  are due to recipients by February 17.

Payers of nonemployee compensation. File  Form  1099-NEC  for  nonemployee compensation paid in 2025.

## February 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during January, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## February 17

Individuals. If you claimed exemption from income tax withholding last year on the Form W-4 you gave your employer, you must file a new Form W-4 by this date to continue your exemption for another year.

- All  businesses. Give  annual  information statements to recipients of certain payments you made during 2025. You can use the appropriate version of Form 1099 or other information return. Form 1099 can be issued electronically  with  the  consent  of  the  recipient. This  due  date  applies  only  to  the  following types of payments.
- All payments reported on Form 1099-S.
- All payments reported on Form 1099-B.
- Substitute payments reported in box 8 or gross proceeds paid to an attorney reported in box 10 of Form 1099-MISC.

## March 2

- All  businesses. File  information  returns (for example, certain Forms 1099) for certain payments you made during 2025. These payments  are  described  under All  businesses under  February  2,  earlier.  However,  Form 1099-NEC  reporting  nonemployee  compensation must be filed by February 2. There are different forms  for different  types  of  payments. Use a separate Form 1096 to summarize  and  transmit  the  forms  for  each  type  of payment.  See  the General  Instructions  for Certain  Information  Returns for  information on  what  payments  are  covered,  how  much the  payment  must  be  before  a  return  is  required, which form to use, and extensions of time to file.

If you file Forms 1097, 1098, 1099 (except a Form  1099-NEC  reporting  nonemployee  compensation), 3921, 3922, or W-2G electronically, your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31. The due date for giving the  recipient  these  forms  generally  remains February 2.

Farmers  and  fishermen. File  your  2025 income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR) and pay all tax due. However, you have until April 15 to file if you paid your 2025 estimated tax by January 15, 2026.

## March 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received  $20  or  more  in  tips  during  February, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## March 16

Partnerships. File  a  2025  calendar  year return  (Form  1065).  Provide  each  partner with  a  copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1  (Form 1065),  Partner's  Share  of  Income,  Deductions, Credits, etc., or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), and, if applicable, Schedule  K-3  (Form  1065),  Partner's  Share of  Income,  Deductions,  Credits,  etc.-International,  or  substitute  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1065).

To request an automatic 6-month extension of  time  to  file  the  return,  file  Form  7004.  Then, file  the  return  and  provide  each  partner  with  a copy  of  their  final  or  amended  (if  required) Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  and,  if  applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) by September 15.

- S corporations. File a 2025 calendar year income tax return (Form 1120-S) and pay any tax  due.  Provide  each  shareholder  with  a copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1  (Form  1120-S), Shareholder's  Share  of  Income,  Deductions, Credits, etc., or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form  1120-S),  and,  if  applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1120-S), Shareholder's Share of  Income,  Deductions,  Credits,  etc.-International,  or  substitute  Schedule  K-3  (Form 1120-S).

To request an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return, file Form 7004 and deposit  what  you  estimate  you  owe  in  tax.  Then, file  the return; pay any tax, interest, and penalties  due;  and  provide  each  shareholder  with  a copy of their Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if  applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form  1120-S)  by September 15.

- S  corporation  election. File  Form  2553 to elect to be treated as an S corporation beginning  with  calendar  year  2026.  If  Form 2553 is filed late, S corporation treatment will begin with calendar year 2027.

## March 31

- Electronic filing of Forms 1097, 1098, 1099, 3921, 3922,  and  W-2G. File Forms 1097, 1098, 1099 (except a Form 1099-NEC reporting nonemployee compensation), 3921, 3922, and W-2G with the IRS. This due date applies only if you file electronically. Otherwise,  see All  businesses under  March  2, earlier.

The due date for  giving  the  recipient  these forms generally remains February 2.

For  information  about  filing  Forms  1097, 1098,  1099,  3921,  3922,  and  W-2G  electronically, see Pub. 1220.

## Second Quarter

The second quarter of a calendar year is made up of April, May, and June.

## April 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during March, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## April 15

Individuals. File  a  2025  Form  1040  or Form  1040-SR  and  pay  any  tax  due.  If  you want an automatic 6-month extension of time to file the return, file Form 4868 and pay what you estimate you owe in tax to avoid penalties  and  interest.  For  more  information,  see Form  4868.  Then,  file  Form  1040  or  Form 1040-SR by October 15.

If  you're  not  paying  your  2026  income  tax through withholding (or won't pay in enough tax during  the  year  that  way),  pay  the  first  installment  of  your  2026  estimated  tax.  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically. Also, see Pub. 505.

Household  employers. If  you  paid  cash wages of $2,800 or more in 2025 to a household  employee,  you  must  file  Schedule  H (Form 1040), Household Employment Taxes. If  you're  required to file a federal income tax return  (Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR),  file Schedule H (Form 1040) with the return and report any household employment taxes. Report any federal unemployment (FUTA) tax on Schedule  H  (Form  1040)  if  you  paid  total cash wages of $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter of 2024 or 2025 to household employees.  Also,  report  any  income  tax  you withheld  for  your  household  employees.  For more information, see Pub. 926.

Corporations. File  a  2025  calendar  year income tax  return  (Form  1120)  and  pay  any tax due. If you want an automatic 6-month extension  of  time  to  file  the  return,  file  Form 7004 and deposit what you estimate you owe in taxes.

Deposit the first installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## May 11

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during April, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## June 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during May, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## June 15

Individuals. If you're a U.S. citizen or resident  alien  living  and  working  (or  on  military duty)  outside  the  United  States  and  Puerto Rico,  file  Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR  and pay any tax, interest, and penalties due. Otherwise, see Individuals under April 15, earlier. If  you want additional time to file your return, file  Form 4868 to obtain 4 additional months to file and pay what you estimate you owe in tax to avoid penalties and interest. Then, file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR by October 15.

However, if you're a participant in a combat zone, you may be able to further extend the filing  deadline.  See  Pub.  3,  Armed  Forces'  Tax Guide.

Individuals. Make a payment of your 2026 estimated tax if you're not paying your income tax for the year through withholding (or won't pay  in  enough  tax  that  way).  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically.  This  is  the  second  installment  date  for estimated tax in 2026. Also, see Pub. 505.

Corporations. Deposit the second installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during June, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## August 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during July, report them  to  your  employer.  See  Pub.  531  for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## September 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during August, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## September 15

Individuals. Make a payment of your 2026 estimated tax if you're not paying your income tax for the year through withholding (or won't pay  in  enough  tax  that  way).  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to  make  estimated  tax  payments  electronically. This is the third installment date for estimated tax in 2026. Also, see Pub. 505.

Partnerships. File  a  2025  calendar  year return  (Form  1065).  This  due  date  applies only  if  you  timely  requested  an  automatic

6-month  extension.  Otherwise,  see Partnerships under  March  16,  earlier.  Provide  each partner with a copy of their final or amended Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) and, if applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1065).

S corporations. File a 2025 calendar year income tax return (Form 1120-S) and pay any tax,  interest,  and  penalties  due.  This  due date  applies  only  if  you  timely  requested  an automatic  6-month  extension  of  time  to  file the return. Otherwise, see S corporations under  March  16,  earlier.  Provide  each  shareholder with a copy of their final  or  amended Schedule  K-1  (Form  1120-S)  or  substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if applicable,  Schedule  K-3  (Form  1120-S)  or  substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S).

Corporations. Deposit the third installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 13

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during September, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## October 15

Individuals. If you have an automatic 6-month extension to file your income tax return for 2025, file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR and pay any tax, interest, and penalties due.

Corporations. File  a  2025  calendar  year income tax  return  (Form  1120)  and  pay  any tax,  interest,  and  penalties  due.  This  due date  applies  only  if  you  timely  requested  an automatic 6-month extension. Otherwise, see Corporations under April 15, earlier.

## November 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during October, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## December 10

Employees who work for tips. If  you received $20 or more in tips during November, report them to your employer. See Pub. 531 for more information on how to report tips to your employer.

## December 15

Corporations. Deposit  the  fourth  installment of estimated income tax for 2026.

## Fiscal-Year Taxpayers

If you use a fiscal year (rather than the calendar year) as your tax year, you should change some of  the  dates in this calendar. Use the following general guidelines to make these changes.

Tip: The 3 months that make up each quarter of a fiscal year may be different from those of each calendar quarter, depending on when the fiscal year begins. Also, see Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, earlier.

## Individuals

Form  1040  or  Form  1040-SR. This  form  is due on the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of your tax year. Form 4868 is used to request  an  automatic  6-month  extension  of  time to file Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR.

Estimated  tax  payments. Payments  are  due on the 15th day of the 4th, 6th, and 9th months of your tax year and on the 15th day of the 1st month  after  your  tax  year  ends.  See  Form 1040-ES for more information, including how to make estimated tax payments electronically.

## Partnerships

Form 1065. This form is due on the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the partnership's tax  year.  Provide  each  partner  with  a  copy  of their  Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  or  substitute Schedule  K-1  (Form  1065)  and,  if  applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) by the 15th day of the 3rd month  after  the  end  of  the  partnership's  tax year.  Form  7004  is  used  to  request  an  automatic  6-month  extension  of  time  to  file  Form 1065.

## Corporations and S Corporations

Form 1120 (or Form 7004). This form is due on the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of the  corporation's  tax  year.  However,  corporations  with  a  short  tax  year  that  began  before January 1, 2026, and ends on June 30, 2026, must file by September 15, 2026. A corporation with a short tax year ending anytime in June will be  treated  as  if  the  short  year  ended  on  June 30.

Form 7004 is used to request an automatic 6-month  extension  of  time  to  file  Form  1120. However,  corporations  with  a  fiscal  tax  year ending June 30, or a short tax year treated as if the short year ended June 30 that begins before January 1, 2026, will use Form 7004 to request an  automatic  7-month  extension  of  time  to  file Form 1120.

Form  1120-S  (or  Form  7004). This  form  is due on the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the corporation's tax year. Provide each shareholder  with  a  copy  of  their  Schedule  K-1 (Form 1120-S) or substitute Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) and, if applicable, Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S) or substitute Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S) by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the corporation's tax year. Form 7004 is used to request an automatic 6-month extension of time to file Form 1120-S.

Estimated  tax  payments. Payments  are  due on  the  15th  day  of  the  4th,  6th,  9th,  and  12th months of the corporation's tax year.

Form 2553. This form is used to choose S corporation  treatment.  It  is  due  no  more  than  2 months and 15 days after the beginning of the tax  year  the  election  is  to  take  effect  or  at  any time during the preceding tax year.

## Employer's Tax Calendar

This  tax  calendar  covers  various  due  dates  of interest  to  employers.  Principally,  it  covers  the following federal taxes.

- Social security and Medicare taxes (FICA taxes) you withhold from your employees' wages and the social security and Medicare taxes you must pay as an employer.
- Income tax you withhold from your employees' wages or from nonpayroll amounts you pay out.
- Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax you must pay as an employer.

The calendar lists due dates for filing returns and  for  making  deposits  of  these  three  taxes throughout the year. Use this calendar with Pub. 15, which gives the deposit rules.

Forms you may need. The  following  is  a  list and description of the primary employment tax forms you may need.

1. Form 940, Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report the FUTA tax on wages you paid.
2. Form 941, Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar quarter ends. Use it to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income taxes on wages if your employees aren't farm workers or household employees.
3. Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax Return for Agricultural Employees. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income taxes on wages if your employees are farm workers.
4. Form 944, Employer's ANNUAL Federal Tax Return. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Certain small employers use it instead of Form 941 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax.
5. Form 945, Annual Return of Withheld Federal Income Tax. This form is due the last day of the first calendar month after the calendar year ends. Use it to report income tax withheld on all nonpayroll items. A list of nonpayroll items is available in the Instructions for Form 945.

Fiscal-year  taxpayers. The  dates  in  this  calendar apply whether you use a fiscal year or the calendar year as your tax year. The only excep- tion is the date for filing forms in the Form 5500 series,  for  example,  Forms  5500,  Annual  Return/Report of Employee  Benefit Plan, and 5500-EZ,  Annual  Return  of  A  One-Participant (Owners/Partners  and  Their  Spouses)  Retirement Plan or A Foreign Plan. These employee benefit plan forms are due by the last day of the seventh month after the plan year ends. See All employers under July 31, later. For more information  on  filing  these  forms,  go  to IRS.gov/ Form5500 .

Extended due dates. If  you  timely  deposit  in full  the  tax  you're  required  to  report  on  Form 940, 941, 943, 944, or 945, you may file the return by the 10th day of the 2nd month that follows the end of the return period.

Caution: If  you're  subject  to  the  semiweekly deposit  rule,  use  Table  2  near  the  end  of  this publication  for  your  deposit  due  dates.  However,  if  you  accumulate  $100,000  or  more  of taxes  on  any  day  during  a  deposit  period,  you must deposit the tax by the next business day instead of the date shown in Table 2.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## During January

All employers. Give your employees their copies of Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2025  by  February  2,  2026.  If  the  employee agreed to receive Form W-2 electronically, have it  posted on a website and notify the employee of the posting.

## January 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in December 2025.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in December 2025.

## February 2

All employers. Give your employees their copies of Form W-2 for 2025. If an employee agreed  to  receive  Form  W-2  electronically, have  it  posted  on  a  website  and  notify  the employee of the posting.

File Form W-3, Transmittal of Wage and Tax Statements, along with Copy A of all the Forms W-2 you issued for 2025.

Payers of nonemployee compensation. File  Form  1099-NEC  for  nonemployee compensation paid in 2025.

Payers of gambling winnings. If  you  either  paid  reportable  gambling  winnings  or withheld income tax from gambling winnings, give the winners their copies of Form W-2G.

Nonpayroll taxes. File Form 945 to report income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpayroll  items,  including  backup  withholding  and withholding on pensions, annuities, IRAs, gambling  winnings,  and  payments  of  Indian gaming profits to tribal members. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed return.  If  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely,  properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until February 10 to file the return.

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File  Form  941  for  the  fourth quarter of 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly, and in full, you have until February 10 to file the return.

Certain small employers. File  Form  944 to  report  social  security  and  Medicare  taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of  deposits rule. If your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2025 but less than $2,500 for the fourth quarter, deposit any undeposited tax or pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full, you have until February 10 to file the return.

Farm employers. File Form 943 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. Deposit or pay any undeposited  tax  under  the  accuracy  of  deposits  rule.  If  your  tax  liability  is  less  than $2,500, you can pay it in full with a timely filed return.  If  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely,  properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until February 10 to file the return.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. File Form 940 for 2025. If your undeposited tax is $500 or less, you can either pay it with your return  or  deposit  it.  If  it  is  more  than  $500, you  must  deposit  it.  However,  if  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year  timely,  properly,  and in  full,  you  have  until  February  10  to  file  the return.

## February 10

Nonpayroll taxes. File Form 945 to report income tax withheld for 2025 on all nonpayroll  items.  This  due  date  applies  only  if  you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File  Form  941  for  the  fourth quarter of 2025. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

Certain small employers. File  Form  944 to  report  social  security  and  Medicare  taxes and  withheld  income  tax  for  2025.  This  due date applies only if you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Farm employers. File Form 943 to report social security and Medicare taxes and withheld income tax for 2025. This due date applies only if you deposited the tax for the year timely, properly, and in full.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. File Form  940  for  2025.  This  due  date  applies only  if  you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  year timely, properly, and in full.

## February 17

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in January.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in January.

## February 18

All  employers. Begin withholding income tax from the pay of  any  employee  who claimed exemption from withholding in 2025, but didn't give you Form W-4 to continue the exemption this year.

## March 2

Payers of gambling winnings. File Form 1096  along  with  Copy  A  of  all  the  Forms W-2G you issued for 2025.

If  you  file  Forms  W-2G  electronically,  your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31. The due date for giving the recipient these forms remains February 2.

Health coverage reporting to IRS. If you're an Applicable Large Employer, file paper Forms 1094-C, Transmittal of Employer-Provided  Health  Insurance  Offer  and Coverage  Information  Returns,  and  1095-C with  the  IRS.  For  all  other  providers  of  minimum  essential  coverage,  file  paper  Forms 1094-B, Transmittal of Health Coverage Information Returns, and 1095-B with the IRS. If you're  filing  any  of  these  forms  with  the  IRS electronically,  your  due  date  for  filing  them will  be  extended  to  March  31.  See  the  Instructions for Forms 1094-B and 1095-B, and the Instructions for Forms 1094-C and 1095-C for more information about the information reporting requirements.

Large  food  and  beverage  establishment employers. File Form 8027, Employer's Annual Information Return of Tip Income and Allocated Tips. Use Form 8027-T, Transmittal of  Employer's  Annual  Information  Return  of Tip Income and Allocated Tips, to summarize and  transmit  paper  Forms  8027  if  you  have more than one establishment.

If  you  file  Forms  8027  electronically,  your due date for filing them with the IRS will be extended to March 31.

Health  coverage  reporting  to  employees.

If you're an Applicable Large Employer, provide Form 1095-C, Employer-Provided Health Insurance  Offer  and  Coverage,  to full-time employees. For all other providers of minimum  essential  coverage,  provide  Form 1095-B,  Health  Coverage,  to  responsible  individuals. See  the Instructions for  Forms 1094-B and 1095-B, and the Instructions for

Forms 1094-C and 1095-C for more information  about  the  information  reporting  requirements.

## March 16

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in February.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in February.

## March 31

Electronic  filing  of  Forms  W-2G. File copies of all the Forms W-2G you issued for 2025. This due date applies only if you electronically file. Otherwise, see Payers of gambling winnings under March 2, earlier.

The due date for  giving  the  recipient  these forms remains February 2.

For  information  about  filing  Forms  W-2G electronically, see Pub. 1220.

Electronic filing of  Forms  8027. File Forms 8027 for 2025. This due date applies only  if  you  electronically  file.  Otherwise,  see Large food and beverage establishment employers under March 2, earlier.

## Electronic filing of Forms 1094-C and 1095-C  and  Forms  1094-B  and  1095-B.

If you're an Applicable Large Employer, file electronic Forms 1094-C and 1095-C with the  IRS.  For  all  other  providers  of  minimum essential coverage, file electronic Forms 1094-B and 1095-B with the IRS. Otherwise, see Health  coverage  reporting  to  IRS under March 2, earlier.

## Second Quarter

The  second  quarter  is  made  up  of  April,  May, and June.

## April 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in March.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in March.

Household  employers. If  you  paid  cash wages of $2,800 or more in 2025 to a household  employee,  you  must  file  Schedule  H (Form 1040). If you're required to file a federal income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR), file Schedule H (Form 1040) with the return and report any household employment  taxes.  Report  any  federal  unemployment (FUTA) tax on Schedule H (Form 1040) if  you  paid  total  cash  wages  of  $1,000  or more in any calendar quarter of 2024 or 2025 to household employees. Also, report any income  tax  you  withheld  for  your  household employees.  For  more  information,  see  Pub. 926.

## April 30

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  first quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and in full, you have until May 11 to file the return.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit  the  tax  owed  through  March  if  more than $500.

## May 11

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  first quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## May 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in April.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in April.

## June 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in May.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in May.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in June.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in June.

## July 31

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File Form 941 for the second quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until  August  10  to file the return.

Certain  small  employers. Deposit any undeposited tax if your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2026 but less than $2,500 for the second quarter.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit the tax owed through June if more than $500.

All  employers. If  you  maintain  an  employee benefit plan, such as a pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan, file Form 5500  or  5500-EZ  for  calendar  year  2025.  If you  use  a  fiscal  year  as  your  plan  year,  file the form by the last day of the seventh month after the plan year ends. For more information on filing these forms, go to IRS.gov/ Form5500 .

## August 10

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income tax. File Form 941 for the second quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## August 17

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in July.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in July.

## September 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in August.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in August.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in September.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in September.

## During November

Income tax withholding. Encourage employees to fill out a new Form W-4 for 2027 if they  experienced  any  personal  or  financial changes. Examples of changes that could require a new Form W-4 include changing the filing  status  on  a  tax  return,  changing  the number of jobs worked during the year, and other  income,  deductions,  or  credits.  The 2027 revision of Form W-4 will be available at IRS.gov/FormW4 by  mid-December. Encourage your employees to use the IRS Tax Withholding Estimator available at IRS.gov/ W4App .

## November 2

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  third quarter of 2026. Deposit or pay any undeposited tax under the accuracy of deposits rule. If your tax liability is less than $2,500, you can pay  it  in  full  with  a  timely  filed  return.  If  you deposited the tax for the quarter timely, properly,  and  in  full,  you  have  until  November  10 to file the return.

Certain  small  employers. Deposit any undeposited tax if your tax liability is $2,500 or more for 2026 but less than $2,500 for the third quarter.

Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax. Deposit the tax owed through September if more than $500.

## November 10

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. File  Form  941  for  the  third quarter of 2026. This due date applies only if you  deposited  the  tax  for  the  quarter  timely, properly, and in full.

## November 16

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in October.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in October.

## December 15

Social  security,  Medicare,  and  withheld  income  tax. If  the  monthly  deposit  rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in November.

Nonpayroll  withholding. If  the  monthly deposit rule applies, deposit the tax for payments made in November.

## Excise Tax Calendar

This tax calendar gives the due dates for filing returns  and  making  deposits  of  excise  taxes. Use this calendar with Pub. 510. Also, see the instructions for Forms 11-C, 720, 730, and 2290 for more information.

Forms you may need. The  following  is  a  list and description of the excise tax forms you may need.

1. Form 11-C, Occupational Tax and Registration Return for Wagering. Use this form

to register any wagering activity and to pay an occupational tax on wagering. File Form 11-C if you're in the business of accepting wagers, including conducting a wagering pool or lottery, or are an agent of someone who accepts wagers. You must file the form before you begin accepting wagers. After that, file the form by July 1 of each year. Also, see Form 730 below.

2. Form 720, Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return. File this form by the last day of the month following the calendar quarter. Use this form to report a wide variety of excise taxes, including:
- a. Environmental taxes,
- b. Communications and air transportation taxes,
- c. Fuel taxes,
- d. Retail tax,
- e. Ship passenger tax, and
- f. Manufacturers taxes.
3. Form 730, Monthly Tax Return for Wagers. Use this form to pay an excise tax on wagers you accept. File this form for each month by the last day of the following month. Also, see Form 11-C above.
4. Form 2290, Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax Return. Use this form to pay the federal use tax on heavy highway vehicles registered in your name. File this form by the last day of the month following the month of the vehicle's first taxable use in the tax period. The tax period begins on July 1 and ends the following June 30. You must pay the full year's tax on all vehicles you have in use during the month of July. You must also pay a partial-year tax on taxable vehicles that you put into use in a month after July. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 2290.

Fiscal-year  taxpayers. The  dates  in  this  calendar apply whether you use a fiscal year or the calendar year as your tax year.

Adjustments for Saturday, Sunday, or legal holidays. Generally,  if  a  due  date  falls  on  a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is  delayed  until  the  next  day  that  isn't  a  Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For excise taxes, there are two exceptions to this rule.

- Under the special September deposit rules , if the due date falls on a Saturday, the deposit is due on the preceding Friday. If the due date falls on a Sunday, the deposit is due on the following Monday. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 720.
- For deposits of regular method taxes , if the due date is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is the immediately preceding day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

The Excise Tax Calendar has been adjusted for all of these provisions.

Regular method taxes. These are taxes, other  than  alternative  method  taxes  used  for communication  and  air  transportation taxes,

reported on Form 720 for which deposits are required.

## First Quarter

The first quarter of a calendar year is made up of January, February, and March.

## January 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of December 2025.

## January 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of December 2025.

## January 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of December 2025.

## January 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of January.

## February 2

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the fourth quarter of 2025.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax  on  wagers  accepted  during  December 2025.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in December 2025.

## February 11

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  first  15  days  of  January.

## February 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of January.

## February 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  last  16  days  of  January.

## February 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of February.

## March 2

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during January.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in January.

## March 11

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of Febru- ary.

## March 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 13 days of February.

## March 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 13 days of February.

## March 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of March.

## March 31

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during February.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in February.

## Second Quarter

The second quarter of a calendar year is made up of April, May, and June.

## April 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of March.

## April 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of March.

## April 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of March.

## April 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of April.

## April 30

Form 720 taxes. File Form 720 for the first quarter of 2026.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during March.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in March.

## May 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of April.

## May 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of April.

## May 28

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of April.

## May 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of May.

## June 1

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during April.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in April.

## June 10

Communications and air transportation tickets sold during the first 15 days of May.

taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

## June 12

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of May.

## June 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of May.

## June 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of June.

## June 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during May.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in May.

Floor stocks tax for ozone-depleting chemicals  (IRS  No.  20). Deposit  the  tax  for January 1, 2026.

## Third Quarter

The third quarter of a calendar year is made up of July, August, and September.

## July 1

Occupational excise taxes. File Form 11-C  to  register  and  pay  the  annual  tax  if you're in the business of accepting wagers.

## July 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of June.

## July 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of June.

## July 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of June.

## July 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of July.

## July 31

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the second quarter of 2026.

Patient-Centered Outcomes Research (PCOR) Fee. File Form 720 annually to report and pay the fee on the second quarter Form 720 no later than July 31 of the calendar year immediately following the last day of the policy year or plan year to which the fee applies. If you file Form 720 only to report the fee,  don't  file  Form  720  for  the  first,  third,  or fourth quarters of the year.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during June.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in June.

## August 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of July.

## August 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of July.

## August 26

Communications and air transportation tickets sold during the last 16 days of July.

taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

## August 28

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of August.

## August 31

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the full year's tax on all vehicles you have in use during the month of July.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during July.

## September 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of August.

## September 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of August.

## September 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 16 days of August.

## September 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of September.

Regular  method  taxes  (special  September deposit  rule). Deposit  the  tax  for  the period  beginning  September  16  and  ending September 26.

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method (special September deposit rule). Deposit the  tax  included  in  amounts  billed  or  tickets sold  during  the  period  beginning  September 1 and ending September 11.

## September 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during August.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in August.

## Fourth Quarter

The  fourth  quarter  of  a  calendar  year  is  made up of October, November, and December.

## October 13

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method (special September deposit rule). Deposit the  tax  included  in  amounts  billed  or  tickets sold  during  the  period  beginning  September 12 and ending September 15.

## October 14

Regular  method  taxes  (special  September deposit  rule). Deposit  the  tax  for  the last 4 days of September.

## October 27

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  last  15  days  of  September.

## October 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of October.

## November 2

Form  720  taxes. File  Form  720  for  the third quarter of 2026.

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during September.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in September.

## November 12

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets  sold  during  the  first  15  days  of  October.

## November 13

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 16 days of October.

## November 25

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method. Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or

tickets  sold  during  the  last  16  days  of  October.

## November 27

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of November.

## November 30

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during October.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in October.

## December 10

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Table 2. Due Dates for Electronic Funds Transfer of Taxes for 2026 Under the Semiweekly Rule

| First Quarter:   | First Quarter:   | Second Quarter:   | Second Quarter:   | Third Quarter:   | Third Quarter:   | Fourth Quarter:   | Fourth Quarter:   |
|------------------|------------------|-------------------|-------------------|------------------|------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| Payroll Date     | Due Date         | Payroll Date      | Due Date          | Payroll Date     | Due Date         | Payroll Date      | Due Date          |
| Jan. 1-2         | Jan. 7           | Apr. 1-3          | Apr. 8            | July 1-3         | July 8           | Oct. 1-2          | Oct. 7            |
| Jan. 3-6         | Jan. 9           | Apr. 4-7          | Apr. 10           | July 4-7         | July 10          | Oct. 3-6          | Oct. 9            |
| Jan. 7-9         | Jan. 14          | Apr. 8-10         | Apr. 15           | July 8-10        | July 15          | Oct. 7-9          | Oct. 15           |
| Jan. 10-13       | Jan. 16          | Apr. 11-14        | Apr. 20           | July 11-14       | July 17          | Oct. 10-13        | Oct. 16           |
| Jan. 14-16       | Jan. 22          | Apr. 15-17        | Apr. 22           | July 15-17       | July 22          | Oct. 14-16        | Oct. 21           |
| Jan. 17-20       | Jan. 23          | Apr. 18-21        | Apr. 24           | July 18-21       | July 24          | Oct. 17-20        | Oct. 23           |
| Jan. 21-23       | Jan. 28          | Apr. 22-24        | Apr. 29           | July 22-24       | July 29          | Oct. 21-23        | Oct. 28           |
| Jan. 24-27       | Jan. 30          | Apr. 25-28        | May 1             | July 25-28       | July 31          | Oct. 24-27        | Oct. 30           |
| Jan. 28-30       | Feb. 4           | Apr. 29-May 1     | May 6             | July 29-31       | Aug. 5           | Oct. 28-30        | Nov. 4            |
| Jan. 31- Feb. 3  | Feb. 6           | May 2-5           | May 8             | Aug. 1-4         | Aug. 7           | Oct. 31-Nov. 3    | Nov. 6            |
| Feb. 4-6         | Feb. 11          | May 6-8           | May 13            | Aug. 5-7         | Aug. 12          | Nov. 4-6          | Nov. 12           |
| Feb. 7-10        | Feb. 13          | May 9-12          | May 15            | Aug. 8-11        | Aug. 14          | Nov. 7-10         | Nov. 16           |
| Feb. 11-13       | Feb. 19          | May 13-15         | May 20            | Aug. 12-14       | Aug. 19          | Nov. 11-13        | Nov. 18           |
| Feb. 14-17       | Feb. 20          | May 16-19         | May 22            | Aug. 15-18       | Aug. 21          | Nov. 14-17        | Nov. 20           |
| Feb. 18-20       | Feb. 25          | May 20-22         | May 28            | Aug. 19-21       | Aug. 26          | Nov. 18-20        | Nov. 25           |
| Feb. 21-24       | Feb. 27          | May 23-26         | May 29            | Aug. 22-25       | Aug. 28          | Nov. 21-24        | Nov. 30           |
| Feb. 25-27       | Mar. 4           | May 27-29         | June 3            | Aug. 26-28       | Sept. 2          | Nov. 25-27        | Dec. 2            |
| Feb. 28-Mar. 3   | Mar. 6           | May 30-June 2     | June 5            | Aug. 29-Sept. 1  | Sept. 4          | Nov. 28-Dec. 1    | Dec. 4            |
| Mar. 4-6         | Mar. 11          | June 3-5          | June 10           | Sept. 2-4        | Sept. 10         | Dec. 2-4          | Dec. 9            |
| Mar. 7-10        | Mar. 13          | June 6-9          | June 12           | Sept. 5-8        | Sept. 11         | Dec. 5-8          | Dec. 11           |
| Mar. 11-13       | Mar. 18          | June 10-12        | June 17           | Sept. 9-11       | Sept. 16         | Dec. 9-11         | Dec. 16           |
| Mar. 14-17       | Mar. 20          | June 13-16        | June 22           | Sept. 12-15      | Sept. 18         | Dec. 12-15        | Dec. 18           |
| Mar. 18-20       | Mar. 25          | June 17-19        | June 24           | Sept. 16-18      | Sept. 23         | Dec. 16-18        | Dec. 23           |
| Mar. 21-24       | Mar. 27          | June 20-23        | June 26           | Sept. 19-22      | Sept. 25         | Dec. 19-22        | Dec. 28           |
| Mar. 25-27       | Apr. 1           | June 24-26        | July 1            | Sept. 23-25      | Sept. 30         | Dec. 23-25        | Dec. 30           |
| Mar. 28-31       | Apr. 3           | June 27-30        | July 6            | Sept. 26-29      | Oct. 2           | Dec. 26-29        | Jan. 4            |
|                  |                  |                   |                   | Sept. 30         | Oct. 7           | Dec. 30-31        | Jan. 6            |

Note. This calendar reflects all legal holidays.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the first 15 days of November.

## December 14

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the last 15 days of November.

## December 28

Communications and air transportation taxes under the alternative method.

Deposit the tax included in amounts billed or tickets sold during the last 15 days of November.

## December 29

Regular  method  taxes. Deposit  the  tax for the first 15 days of December.

## December 31

Wagering tax. File Form 730 and pay the tax on wagers accepted during November.

Heavy  highway  vehicle use tax. File Form 2290 and pay the tax for vehicles first used in November.

## How To Get Tax Help

If  you  have  questions  about  a  tax  issue;  need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to  IRS.gov  to  find  resources  that  can  help  you right away.

Tax  reform. Tax  reform  legislation  impacting federal taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P .L. 119-21, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for  more  information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.

Preparing  and  filing  your  tax  return. After receiving  all  your  wage  and  earnings  statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation statements  (by  mail  or  in  a  digital  format)  or other  government  payment  statements  (Form 1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement statements  from  banks  and  investment  firms (Forms  1099),  you  have  several  options  to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You  can  prepare  the  tax  return  yourself,  see  if you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to prepare your return.

Free  options  for  tax  preparation. Your  options  for  preparing  and  filing  your  return  online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

- VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/VITA , download the free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.
- Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
- TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which  can  be  completed  online  and  then e-filed regardless of income.

- MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to MilitaryOneSource ( MilitaryOneSource.mil/ MilTax ).

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

- The Online EIN Application ( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no cost.
- The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant ( IRS.gov/EITCAssistant ) determines if you're eligible for the earned income credit (EITC).
- The Tax Withholding Estimator ( IRS.gov/ W4App ) makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
- The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator ( IRS.gov/SalesTax ) figures the amount you can claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes in tax law.

- IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
- IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.
- IRS.gov/Forms : Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your questions.
- You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

## Need someone to prepare your tax return?

- Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

There are various types of tax return preparers, including  enrolled  agents,  certified  public  accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others  who  don't  have  professional  credentials.  If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,  choose  that  preparer  wisely.  A  paid  tax preparer is:

- Required to sign the return, and
- Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs  the  return,  you're  ultimately  responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for  the  accuracy  of  every  item  reported  on  the return.  Anyone  paid  to  prepare  tax  returns  for others should have a thorough understanding of tax  matters.  For  more  information  on  how  to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers  can  register  to  use  Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration  (SSA)  offers  online  service  at SSA.gov/ employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options  to  CPAs,  accountants,  enrolled  agents, and  individuals  who  process  Form  W-2,  and Form  W-2c,  Corrected  Wage  and  Tax  Statement.

Business tax account. If  you  are  a  sole  proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation,  or  a  single-member  limited  liability company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/ BusinessAccount for more information.

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to  see  the  various  social  media  tools  the  IRS uses  to  share  the  latest  information  on  tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services.  At  the  IRS,  privacy  and  security  are our highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don't post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential information  on  social  media  sites.  Always  protect  your  identity  when  using  any  social  networking site.

- Youtube.com/irsvideos .

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.

- Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua .
- Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .

Online  tax  information  in  other  languages. You can find information on IRS.gov/ MyLanguage if  English  isn't  your  native  language.

Over-the-Phone  Interpreter  (OPI)  Service. The  IRS  offers  the  OPI  Service  to  taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs),  most  IRS  offices,  and  every  VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish,  Mandarin,  Cantonese,  Korean,  Vietnamese, Russian, and Haitian Creole.

Accessibility  Helpline  available  for  taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information  about  accessibility  services  can  call 833-690-0598.  The  Accessibility  Helpline  can answer questions related  to  current  and  future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready,  large  print,  audio,  etc.).  The  Accessibility Helpline doesn't have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/ LetUsHelp .

Alternative  media  preference. Form  9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

- Large Print.
- Standard Print.
- Braille.
- Plain Text File (TXT).
- Audio (MP3).
- Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to  review the available disaster tax relief.

Getting  tax  forms  and  publications. Go  to IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print most of  the  forms,  instructions, and publications you

may need. Or you can go to IRS.gov/ OrderForms to place an order.

Mobile-friendly  forms. You'll  need  an  IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s) online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of your documents to support your submission. Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.

Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook  format. Download  and  view  most  tax publications and  instructions (including  Pub. 509) on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/ eBooks .

IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven't been tested  on  other  dedicated  eBook  readers,  and eBook  functionality  may  not  operate  as  intended.

Access your online account (individual taxpayers  only). Go  to IRS.gov/Account to  securely access information about your federal tax account.

- See payment plan details or apply for a new payment plan.
- View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
- Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
- View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
- Access your tax records, including key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
- Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You can get a transcript,  review  your  most  recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/Account .

Tax  Pro  Account. This  tool  lets  your  tax  professional submit an authorization request to access  your  individual  taxpayer  IRS  OLA.  For more information, go to IRS.gov/ TaxProAccount .

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way  to  receive  a  tax  refund  is  to e-file and choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight  in  10  taxpayers  use  direct  deposit  to  receive their refunds. If you don't have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for  more information  on  where  to  find  a  bank  or  credit union that can open an account online.

## Reporting  and  resolving  your  tax-related identity theft issues.

- Tax-related identity theft happens when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be af-

fected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

- The IRS doesn't initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
- Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN .
- Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft , the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you're a victim of tax-related identity theft, you can learn what steps you should take.

## Ways to check on the status of your refund.

- Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
- Go to IRS.gov/Refunds .
- Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

Caution: The  IRS  can't  issue  refunds  before mid-February for returns that claimed the EITC or  the  additional  child  tax  credit  (ACTC).  This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying  electronically  whenever  possible.  Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to the  IRS  in  U.S.  dollars. Digital  assets are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

- Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet : Choose an approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
- IRS Direct Pay : Pay taxes from your bank account. It's free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
- Electronic Funds Withdrawal : Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
- Check or Money Order : Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
- Electronic Federal Tax Payment System : This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
- Cash : You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
- Same-Day Wire : You may be able to do same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology  to  ensure  that  the  electronic  payments you  make  online,  by  phone,  or  from  a  mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

What  if  I  can't  pay  now? Go  to IRS.gov/ Payments for  more  information  about  your  options.

- Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC .
- Apply for an online payment agreement ( IRS.gov/OPA ) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can't pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.

Filing  an  amended  return. Go  to IRS.gov/ 1040X for information and updates.

Checking  the  status  of  your  amended  return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to  track  the  status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

Caution: It  can  take  up  to  3  weeks  from  the date  you  filed  your  amended  return  for  it  to show  up  in  our  system,  and  processing  it  can take up to 16 weeks.

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you've received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional  information  about  responding  to  an IRS notice or letter.

IRS  Document  Upload  Tool. You  may  be able  to  use  the  Document  Upload  Tool  to  respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online  through  IRS.gov.  For  more  information,  go to IRS.gov/DUT .

Schedule  LEP . You  can  use  Schedule  LEP (Form 1040), Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices,  letters,  or  other  written  communications from  the  IRS  in  an  alternative  language.  You may not immediately receive written communications  in  the  requested  language.  The  IRS's commitment  to  LEP  taxpayers  is  part  of  a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications,  including  notices  and  letters,  in English until  they  are  translated  to  your  preferred language.

Contacting  your  local  TAC. Keep  in  mind, many  questions  can  be  answered  on  IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue  can't  be  handled  online  or  by  phone.  All TACs now provide  service  by  appointment,  so you'll  know  in  advance  that  you  can  get  the service  you  need  without  long  wait  times.  Before  you  visit,  go  to IRS.gov/TAC to  find  the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or on the IRS2Go  app,  under  the  Stay  Connected  tab,

choose the Contact Us option and click on 'Local Offices.'

-------------------

Below  is  a  message  to  you  from  the  Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

## The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) Is Here To Help You

## What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an in­ dependent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent or  correct  the  problems,  and  protects  taxpayer rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

## How Can TAS Help Me?

TAS  can  help  you  resolve  problems  that  you haven't  been  able  to  resolve  with  the  IRS  on your  own.  Always  try  to  resolve  your  problem with the IRS first, but if you can't, then come to TAS. Our services are free .

- To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov . The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if you get a notice from the IRS.
- TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS problem is causing financial difficulty, if you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should.
- TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at

www.IRS.gov/SAMS . (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

## How Do I Contact TAS?

TAS  has  offices  in  every  state,  the  District  of Columbia,  and  Puerto  Rico.  To  find  your  local advocate's number:

- Check your local directory, or
- Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/ Contact-Us ,
- Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

## What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/ Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply  to  specific  situations  you  may  encounter with  the  IRS.  TAS  strives  to  protect  taxpayer rights  and  ensure  the  IRS  is  administering  the tax law in a fair and equitable way.