# Publication 907 - p907

**Tax Year:** 2025
**Source:** https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p907.pdf
**Document Type:** form

---

## Contents

## Publication 907

## Tax Highlights for Persons With Disabilities

For use in preparing

2025 Returns

<!-- image -->

- IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
- IRS.gov (English)
- IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
- IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
- IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
- IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)

## Future Developments

For  the  latest  information  about  developments  related  to Pub. 907, such as legislation enacted after this publication was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub907 .

## What's New

Annual  contribution limit. For 2025,  the  maximum amount that can be contributed to your ABLE account is $19,000.  Certain  employed  ABLE  account  beneficiaries may contribute a limited additional amount. See Contribution limitation , later.

Retirement savings contributions credit (saver's credit) income limits increased. For 2025, your modified  adjusted  gross  income  must  be  not  more  than $39,500 ($79,000 if married filing jointly; $59,250 if head of  household).  See Credit  for  Qualified  Retirement  Savings Contributions , later.

## Introduction

An ABLE account. The Stephen Beck, Jr., Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2014 (ABLE) was enacted to help people with disabilities or who are blind save money in  a  tax-favored  ABLE  account  to  maintain  health,  independence, and quality of life. Compare ABLE programs on the websites of state governments to see which program is best suited for you. See ABLE Account , later.

This  publication  concerns  people  with  disabilities  and those who care for them. It includes highlights about:

my Social  Security  account. Social  security  beneficiaries can obtain helpful information from the Social Security Administration's  website  with  a my Social  Security account. See Social Security and Railroad Retirement Benefits , later.

- Income,
- Tax credits,
- Itemized deductions,
- Household employers,
- ABLE accounts.
- Business tax incentives, and

You will find most of the information you need to complete your tax return in its instructions.

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for information about getting publications, forms, and free tax services.

Comments  and  suggestions. We  welcome  your  comments about this publication and your suggestions for future editions.

You can send us comments through IRS.gov/ FormComments . Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue Service,  Tax  Forms  and  Publications,  1111  Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Although  we  can't  respond  individually  to  each  comment received,  we  do  appreciate  your  feedback  and  will consider  your  comments  and  suggestions  as  we  revise our  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications. Don't send tax  questions,  tax  returns,  or  payments  to  the  above  address.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If  you have a tax question not answered by this publication or the How To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go to  the  IRS  Interactive  Tax  Assistant  page  at IRS.gov/ Help/ITA where  you  can  find  topics  by  using  the  search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to  download  current  and  prior-year forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year  forms  and  instructions.  The  IRS  will  process your order for forms and publications as soon as possible. Don't resubmit requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

## Income

All  income is taxable unless it is specifically excluded by law. The following discussions highlight some taxable and nontaxable income items. For information about distributions from an ABLE account, see ABLE Account , later.

## Dependent Care Benefits

Dependent care benefits include the following.

- Amounts your employer paid directly to you or your care provider for the care of your qualifying person(s) while you worked.
- The fair market value (FMV) of care in a daycare facility provided or sponsored by your employer.
- Pre-tax contributions you made under a dependent care flexible spending arrangement.

Exclusion or deduction. If  your  employer  provides  dependent care benefits under a qualified plan, you may be able to exclude these benefits from your income. Your employer can tell you whether your benefit plan qualifies. To claim  the  exclusion,  you  must  complete  Part  III  of  Form 2441, Child and Dependent Care Expenses.

The amount you can exclude or deduct is limited to the smallest of the following.

If  you  are  self-employed  and  receive  benefits  from  a qualified dependent care benefit plan, you are treated as both employer and employee. Therefore, you wouldn't get an exclusion from wages. Instead, you would get a deduction on one of the following Form 1040 or 1040-SR schedules:  Schedule  C,  line  14;  Schedule  E,  line  19  or  28;  or Schedule F, line 15. To claim the deduction, you must use Form 2441.

1. The total amount of dependent care benefits you received during the year.
2. The total amount of qualified expenses you incurred during the year.
3. Your earned income.
4. Your spouse's earned income.

Statement for employee. Your employer must give you a Form W-2 (or similar statement) showing in box 10 the total  amount  of  dependent  care  benefits  provided  to  you during the year under a qualified plan. Your employer will also include any dependent care benefits over $5,000 for 2025 in your wages shown on your Form W-2 in box 1.

Qualifying  person(s). A  qualifying  person  is  any  of the following.

- A qualifying child who is under age 13 whom you can claim as a dependent. If the child turned 13 during the year, the child is a qualifying person for the part of the year they were under age 13.
- Your disabled spouse who isn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves.
- Any disabled person who wasn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves whom you can claim as a dependent (or could claim as a dependent except that the person had gross income of $5,200 or more or filed a joint return).
- Any disabled person who wasn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves whom you could claim as a dependent except that you (or your spouse if filing jointly) could be claimed as a dependent on another taxpayer's 2025 return.

For information about excluding benefits on Form 1040, Form 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR, see Form 2441 and its instructions.

## Social Security and Railroad Retirement Benefits

my Social Security account. Social security beneficiaries  may  quickly  and  easily  obtain  the  following  information from the Social Security Administration's website with a my Social Security account.

- Keep track of your earnings and verify them every year.
- Get an estimate of your future benefits if you are still working.
- Get a letter with proof of your benefits if you currently receive them.
- Change your address.
- Get a replacement Medicare card.
- Start or change your direct deposit.
- Get a replacement SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S for the tax season.

For  more  information  and  to  set  up  an  account,  go  to SSA.gov/MyAccount .

If  you  received  social  security  or  equivalent  tier  1  railroad  retirement  (RRTA)  benefits  during  the  year,  part  of the amount you received may be taxable.

Are  any  of  your  benefits  taxable? If  the  only  income you  received  during  the  year  was  your  social  security  or equivalent tier  1  RRTA benefits, your benefits are generally not taxable.

If you received income during the year in addition to social  security  or  equivalent  tier  1  RRTA  benefits,  part  of your benefits may be taxable if all of your other income, including tax-exempt interest, plus half of your benefits are more than:

- $25,000 if you are single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse;
- $25,000 if you are married filing separately and lived apart from your spouse for all of 2025;
- $32,000 if you are married filing jointly; or
- $0 if you are married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during 2025.

For  more  information,  see  the  instructions  for  Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 6a and 6b, and Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement Benefits.

Supplemental  Security  Income  (SSI)  payments. Social  security  benefits  don't  include  SSI  payments,  which aren't  taxable.  Don't  include  these  payments  in  your  income.

## Disability Pensions

If you retired on disability, you must include in income any disability pension you receive under a plan that is paid for by your employer. You must report your taxable disability payments as wages on line 1h of Form 1040 or 1040-SR until  you  reach  minimum retirement age. Minimum retirement age is  generally  the  age  at  which  you  can  first  receive a pension or annuity if you aren't disabled.

Tip: You may be entitled to a tax credit if you were permanently and totally disabled when you retired. See Pub. 524, Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled.

Beginning on the day after you reach minimum retirement age, payments you receive are taxable as a pension or annuity. Report the payments on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 5a and 5b. See Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income.

Terrorist  attacks. Don't  include  in  income  the  disability payments you receive for injuries incurred as a direct result of terrorist attacks directed against the United States (or its allies), whether outside or within the United States. In  the  case of the September 11 attacks, injuries eligible for  coverage  by  the  September  11  Victim  Compensation Fund are treated as incurred as a direct result of the attack.  However,  you  must  include  in  your  income  any amounts that you received that you would have received in retirement had you not become disabled as a result of a terrorist  attack.  Accordingly,  you  must  include  in  your  income any payments you receive from a 401(k), pension, or other retirement plan to the extent that you would have received the amount at the same or later time regardless of whether you had become disabled.

Disability payments you receive for injuries not incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack, or for illnesses or diseases not resulting from an injury incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack, cannot be excluded from your income  under  this  provision,  but  may  be  excludable  for other reasons as described in this publication.

Tip: Contact the company or agency making these payments if it incorrectly reports your payments as taxable income to the IRS on Form 1099-R, Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance  Contracts,  etc.,  to  request  that  it  reissue  the form to report some or all of these payments as nontaxable  income  in  box  12  (using  code  J)  of  Form  W-2,  or  in box 1 of Form 1099-R but not in box 2a. If income taxes are  being  incorrectly  withheld  from  these  payments,  you may  also  submit  Form  W-4P ,  Withholding  Certificate  for Pension or Annuity Payments, to the company or agency to  stop  the  withholding  of  income  taxes  from  the  payments.

Retirement  and  profit-sharing  plans. If  you  receive payments  from  a  retirement  or  profit-sharing  plan  that doesn't  provide  for  disability  retirement,  don't  treat  the payments as a disability pension. The payments must be reported as a pension or annuity.

Accrued  leave  payment. If  you  retire  on  disability,  any lump-sum payment you receive for accrued annual leave is  a  salary  payment.  The  payment  isn't  a  disability  payment. Include it in your income in the tax year you receive it.

See Pub. 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income.

## Military and Government Disability Pensions

Generally, you must report disability pensions as income, but don't include certain military and government disability pensions. See Pub. 525.

VA  disability  benefits. Don't  include  disability  benefits you receive from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in your gross income. If you are a military retiree and don't receive your disability benefits from the VA, see Pub. 525 for more information.

Don't  include  in  your  income  any  veterans'  benefits paid under any law, regulation, or administrative practice administered by the VA. These include:

- Education, training, and subsistence allowances;
- Disability compensation and pension payments for disabilities paid to veterans or their families;
- Grants for homes designed for wheelchair living;

- Grants for motor vehicles for veterans who lost their sight or the use of their limbs;
- Veterans' insurance proceeds and dividends paid to veterans or their beneficiaries, including the proceeds of a veteran's endowment policy paid before death;
- Interest on insurance dividends left on deposit with the VA;
- Benefits under a dependent-care assistance program;
- The death gratuity paid to a survivor of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces who died after September 10, 2001; or
- Payments made under the VA's compensated work therapy program.

## Other Payments

You may receive other payments that are related to your disability. The following payments aren't taxable.

- Benefit payments from a public welfare fund, such as payments due to blindness.
- Workers' compensation for an occupational sickness or injury if paid under a workers' compensation act or similar law.
- Compensatory (but not punitive) damages for physical injury or physical sickness.
- Disability benefits under a 'no-fault' car insurance policy for loss of income or earning capacity as a result of injuries.
- Compensation for permanent loss or loss of use of a part or function of your body, or for your permanent disfigurement.

## Long-Term Care Insurance

Long-term care insurance contracts are generally treated as accident and health insurance contracts. Amounts you receive  from  them  (other  than  policyholder  dividends  or premium  refunds)  are  generally  excludable  from  income as amounts received for personal injury or sickness. See Pub. 525.

## Accelerated Death Benefits

You can exclude from income accelerated death benefits you receive on the life of an insured individual if certain requirements are met. Accelerated death benefits are amounts  received  under  a  life  insurance  contract  before the  death  of  the  insured.  These  benefits  also  include amounts received on the sale or assignment of the contract  to  a  viatical  settlement  provider.  This  exclusion  applies only if the insured was a terminally ill individual or a chronically ill individual. See Pub. 525.

## Itemized Deductions

If you file Form 1040 or 1040-SR, to lower your taxable income, you can generally claim the standard deduction or itemize your deductions, such as medical expenses, using Schedule A (Form 1040). For impairment-related work expenses, use the appropriate business form (1040 Schedules C, E, and F; or Form 2106, Employee Business Expenses).

## Medical Expenses

When figuring your deduction for medical expenses, you can  generally  include  medical  and  dental  expenses  you pay for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents.

Medical expenses are the cost of diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, and the costs for  treatments  affecting  any  part  or  function  of  the  body. They include the costs of equipment, supplies, diagnostic devices, and transportation for needed medical care and payments for medical insurance.

You  can  deduct  only  the  amount  of  your  medical  and dental expenses that is more than 7.5% of your adjusted gross income shown on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.

The following list highlights some of the medical expenses you can include in figuring your medical expense deduction.

- Artificial limbs, contact lenses, eyeglasses, and hearing aids.
- The part of the cost of Braille books and magazines that is more than the price of regular printed editions.
- Cost and repair of special telephone equipment for hearing-impaired persons.
- Cost of a wheelchair used mainly for the relief of sickness or disability, and not just to provide transportation to and from work. The cost of operating and maintaining the wheelchair is also a medical expense.
- Cost and care of a guide dog or other animal aiding a person with a physical disability.
- Costs for a school that furnishes special education if a principal reason for using the school is its resources for relieving a mental or physical disability. This includes the cost of teaching Braille and lip reading and the cost of remedial language training to correct a condition caused by a birth defect.
- Premiums for qualified long-term care insurance, up to certain amounts.
- Improvements to a home that do not increase its value if the main purpose is medical care. An example is constructing entrance or exit ramps.

Tip: Improvements that increase a home's value, if the main purpose is medical care, may be partly included as a medical expense. See Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses.

## Impairment-Related Work Expenses

If you are disabled, you can take a business deduction for expenses that are necessary for you to be able to work. If you take a business deduction for these impairment-related work expenses, they are not subject to the 7.5% limit that applies to medical expenses.

You are disabled if you have:

- A physical or mental disability (for example, blindness or deafness) that functionally limits your being employed; or
- A physical or mental impairment (including, but not limited to, a sight or hearing impairment) that substantially limits one or more of your major life activities, such as performing manual tasks, walking, speaking, breathing, learning, or working.

Impairment-related  expenses  defined. Impairment-related  expenses  are  those  ordinary  and  necessary  business expenses that are:

- Necessary for you to do your work satisfactorily;
- For goods and services not required or used, other than incidentally, in your personal activities; and
- Not specifically covered under other income tax laws. See Pub. 502.

## Tax Credits

This discussion highlights four tax credits which may lower your tax due and may be refundable.

## Child and Dependent Care Credit

If you pay someone to care for your dependent under age 13 or your spouse or dependent who is not able to care for themselves, you may be able to get a credit of up to 35% of  your  expenses. To qualify, you must pay these expenses so you can work or look for work. The care must be provided for:

1. Your qualifying child who is your dependent and who was under age 13 when the care was provided;
2. Your spouse who was not physically or mentally able to care for themselves and lived with you for more than half the year; or
3. A person who was not physically or mentally able to care for themselves, lived with you for more than half the year, and either:
- a. Was your dependent; or
- b. Would have been your dependent except that:
- i. They had gross income of $5,200 or more;
- ii. They filed a joint return; or
- iii. You, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2025 return.

You can claim the credit on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. You figure the credit on Form 2441.

For  more  information,  see  the  instructions  for  Schedule R (Form 1040).

## Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled

You may be able to claim this credit if you are a U.S. citizen or a resident alien and either of the following applies.

- You were 65 or older at the end of 2025.
- You were under 65 at the end of 2025, and retired on permanent or total disability.

You can claim the credit on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. You figure the credit on Schedule R (Form 1040), Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled.

For  more  information,  see  the  Instructions  for  Schedule R (Form 1040).

## Earned Income Credit

This  credit  is  for  workers  with  low  to  moderate  incomes who  have  a  qualifying  child  or  meet  other  qualifications. You  can  get  the  credit  if  your  adjusted  gross  income  for 2025 is less than:

- $19,104 ($26,214 for married filing jointly) if you do not have a qualifying child,
- $50,434 ($57,554 for married filing jointly) if you have one qualifying child,
- $57,310 ($64,430 for married filing jointly) if you have two qualifying children, or
- $61,555 ($68,675 for married filing jointly) if you have three or more qualifying children.

To  figure  the  credit,  use  the  worksheet  in  the  Instructions  for  Form  1040.  If  you  have  a  qualifying  child,  also complete  Schedule  EIC  (Form  1040),  Earned  Income Credit, and attach it to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

Qualifying child. To be a qualifying child, your child must be  younger  than  you  (or  your  spouse  if  married  filing jointly) and under age 19 or a full-time student under age 24 at the end of 2025, or permanently and totally disabled at any time during 2025, regardless of age.

Earned income. If  you  are  retired  on  disability,  benefits you  receive  under  your  employer's  disability  retirement plan are considered earned income until you reach minimum  retirement  age.  However,  payments  you  received from a disability insurance policy that you paid the premiums for are not earned income.

More information. For more information, including all the requirements to claim the earned income credit, see the

instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27, and Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit.

## Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings Contributions

You may be able to claim the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions (also known as the saver's credit) of up to $1,000 (up to $2,000 if filing jointly) if you make eligible  contributions  to  your  ABLE  account.  This  is  a  nonrefundable credit, which means the amount of the credit in any year can't be more than your tax that you would otherwise pay (not counting any refundable credits) for any tax year.  If  your  tax  liability  is  reduced  to  zero  because  of other  nonrefundable  credits,  such  as  the  credit  for  child and dependent care expenses, then you won't be entitled to this credit.

Can you claim the credit? If you make eligible contributions to your ABLE account, you can claim the credit if all of the following apply.

1. You were born before January 2, 2008.
2. You aren't a full-time student (explained later).
3. No one else, such as your parent(s), claims an exemption for you on their tax return.
4. Your adjusted gross income (defined below) isn't more than:
- a. $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
- b. $59,250 if your filing status is head of household; or
- c. $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.

Full-time  student. You're  a  full-time  student  if,  during some part of each of 5 calendar months (not necessarily consecutive) during the calendar year, you're either:

- A full-time student at a school that has a regular teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of students in attendance; or
- A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course given by either a school that has a regular teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of students in attendance, or a state, county, or local government.

You're a full-time student if you're enrolled for the number  of  hours  or  courses  the  school  considers  to  be  full time.

Adjusted gross income. This is generally the amount on your  2025  Form  1040,  1040-SR,  or  1040-NR,  line  11. However, you must add to that any exclusion or deduction claimed for the year for:

- Foreign earned income,
- Income from bona fide residents of American Samoa, and
- Income from Puerto Rico.

Eligible contributions. Include on Form 8880 your contributions made before 2026 to your ABLE account, as defined in section 529A, up to the annual contribution limit, to figure the amount, if any, of your retirement savings contributions credit (also known as the saver's credit).

Reducing  eligible  contributions. Reduce  your  eligible contributions (but not below zero) by the total distributions you received during the testing period from any ABLE account or from any retirement plan. Don't reduce your eligible  contributions by the portion of any distribution that is rolled over to another ABLE account.

Distributions received by spouse. Any distributions your spouse received are treated as received by you if you file a joint return with your spouse both for the year of the distribution and for the year for which you claim the credit.

Testing period. The testing period consists of the year for which you claim the credit, the period after the end of that  year  and  before  the  due  date  (including  extensions) for filing your return for that year, and the 2 tax years before that year.

Maximum  eligible  contributions. After  your  contributions  are  reduced,  the  maximum  annual  contribution  on which you can base the credit is $2,000 per person.

Effect on other credits. The amount of this credit won't change the  amount  of  your  refundable  tax  credits.  A  refundable tax credit, such as the earned income credit or the  refundable  amount  of  your  child  tax  credit,  is  an amount  that  you  would  receive  as  a  refund  even  if  you don't owe any taxes.

More  information  on  how  to  figure  and  report  the credit. See Form 8880 to determine your credit.

## Household Employers

If you pay someone to work in your home, such as a babysitter or housekeeper, you may be a household employer who has to pay employment taxes.

A person you hire through an agency is not your employee if the agency controls what work is done and how it is done. This control could include setting the fee, requiring regular reports, and providing rules of conduct and appearance.  In  this  case,  you  do  not  have  to  pay  employment taxes on the amount you pay. But if you control what work is done and how it is done, the worker is your employee. If you possess the right to discharge a worker, that worker is generally considered to be your employee. If a worker is your employee, it does not matter that you hired the worker through an agency or from a list provided by an agency.

To  find  out  if  you  have  to  pay  employment  taxes,  see Pub. 926, Household Employer's Tax Guide.

## Business Tax Incentives

If you own or operate a business, you should be aware of the following tax incentives for businesses to help persons with disabilities.

- Deduction for costs of removing barriers to the disabled and the elderly -This is a deduction a business can take for making a facility or public transportation vehicle more accessible to and usable by persons who are disabled or elderly. See chapter 7 of Pub. 535, Business Expenses.
- Disabled access credit -This is a nonrefundable tax credit for an eligible small business that pays or incurs expenses to provide access to persons with disabilities. The expenses must be to enable the eligible small business to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 as in effect on November 5, 1990. See Form 8826, Disabled Access Credit.
- Work opportunity credit -This credit provides businesses with an incentive to hire individuals from targeted groups that have a particularly high unemployment rate or other special employment needs. One targeted group consists of vocational rehabilitation referrals. These are individuals who have a physical or mental disability that results in a substantial handicap to employment and who have been referred to the employer upon completion of (or while receiving) rehabilitative services. See Form 5884, Work Opportunity Credit.

## ABLE Account

Overview. Compare ABLE programs on the websites of state governments to see which program is best suited for you.

- An ABLE account is a tax-favored savings account that can accept contributions for an eligible individual with a disability or who is blind, and who is the designated beneficiary and owner of the account. The account is used to provide for qualified disability expenses.
- An ABLE account is generally disregarded for purposes of determining eligibility for benefits under Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and certain other means-tested federal programs. For further information, go to SSA.gov .
- A designated beneficiary is limited to only one ABLE account at a time (for exceptions, see Rollovers, program-to-program transfers, and beneficiary changes , later). If an additional ABLE account is opened (other than for receiving a rollover or program-to-program transfer), it is still an ABLE account if either all contributions made to the additional account are returned to the contributors or the additional account is transferred into your preexisting ABLE account with any excess contributions and excess aggregate contributions being returned to the contributors, on or before

the due date (including extensions) of your federal income tax return for the year in which the additional account was established.

- Earnings in an ABLE account aren't taxed unless a distribution exceeds a designated beneficiary's qualified disability expenses. A designated beneficiary doesn't include distributions for qualified disability expenses in their income. Qualified disability expenses include any expenses incurred at a time when the designated beneficiary is an eligible individual. The expenses must relate to blindness or disability, including expenses for maintaining or improving health, independence, or quality of life.
- Contributions to an ABLE account are not tax deductible and must be in cash or cash equivalents. Anyone, including the designated beneficiary, can contribute to an ABLE account. An ABLE account is subject to an annual contribution limit and a cumulative balance limit.
- Upon your death, as a designated beneficiary, any state may file a claim (either with the person with signature authority over your ABLE account or the executor of your estate) for the amount of the total medical assistance paid to you under the state's Medicaid plan after you (or a person with authority to open an ABLE account on your behalf) established an ABLE account. The amount paid in satisfaction of such a claim is not a taxable distribution from your ABLE account. Further, this amount is paid to the state only after all your qualified disability expenses have been paid from your ABLE account and the amount paid to satisfy the state's claim is reduced by the amount of all premiums you paid to a Medicaid Buy-In program under that state's Medicaid plan.

Who  can  establish  an  ABLE  account  and  what  are the requirements? You may establish an ABLE account if your blindness or disability occurred before age 26. As a disabled individual, you may be eligible if either of the following applies.

- You are entitled to benefits based on blindness or disability under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act.
- You file a disability certification under the rules of your qualified ABLE program, which will include information regarding your diagnosis relating to your relevant impairment or impairments signed by a physician (as defined in section 1861(r) of the Social Security Act). You must certify one of the following.
- You are blind within the meaning of section 1614(a) (2) of the Social Security Act.
- You have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which results in marked and severe functional limitations, which (a) can be expected to result in death, or (b) lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.

You  may  choose  to  have  someone  else  establish  an ABLE  account  for  you.  If  you're  unable  to  establish  an ABLE account, your agent, under a power of attorney, or if none, your conservator or legal guardian, spouse, parent,

sibling, grandparent, or a representative payee appointed for you by the Social Security Administration (SSA), in that order, can establish it for you. However, only you, the designated beneficiary, can have any interest in the account during your lifetime.

Loss  of  eligible  individual  status. If  you  establish  an ABLE account and later cease to be an eligible individual because,  for  example,  your  impairment  goes  into  remission, then beginning the first day of the next year no contributions may be accepted by your ABLE account. If you cease to be an eligible individual, then for each tax year in which  you  are  not  an  eligible  individual,  the  account  will continue to be an ABLE account, and the ABLE account will  not  be  deemed  to  be  distributed.  Contributions  may resume after the impairment recurs. You should notify your ABLE program of any changes in your eligibility status.

Distributions  from  your  ABLE  account  during  a  period you're  no  longer  an  eligible  individual  aren't  for  qualified disability  expenses  and  therefore  are  possibly  subject  to tax. The earnings portion of a distribution (determined under  section  72)  made  from  your  ABLE  account  to  you when you're no longer an eligible individual may be taxable.

Example. In 2025, the taxpayer is an eligible individual with $2,400 in their ABLE account. $2,000 of this is from contributions, and $400 is earnings. During 2025, the taxpayer's disability goes into remission and they are no longer an eligible individual. In 2026, a distribution of $2,400 is made to the taxpayer from the ABLE account while they aren't an eligible individual. The earnings portion, $400, is included in the taxpayer's gross income after the calculation in Table 1. Figuring the Taxable Portion of a Distribution .

Contribution  limitation. The  total  annual  contributions to an ABLE account (including amounts rolled over from a section  529  account,  but  not  other  amounts  received  in rollovers  and/or  program-to-program  transfers  between ABLE accounts) are limited to the annual gift tax exclusion amount ($19,000 for 2025), plus certain employed ABLE account beneficiaries may make an additional contribution up to the lesser of these amounts: (1) the designated beneficiary's compensation for the tax year, or (2) the poverty line  amount  of  $15,650  in  the  continental  United  States, $17,990 in Hawaii and $19,550 in Alaska. The designated beneficiary's  contribution  limit  is  determined  using  the poverty guideline applicable in the state of the designated beneficiary's  residence.  An  employed designated beneficiary  isn't  eligible  for  the  increased  contribution  limit  for the  tax  year  if  any  contribution  is  made  on  behalf  of  the employee  to  a  qualified  defined  contribution  plan  (within the meaning of section 414(i)), a section 403(b) plan, or a section  457(b)  plan.  Also,  contributions  may  not  exceed an  annual  cumulative  limit,  which  is  the  same  as  the state's section 529 qualified tuition program limit.

What  if  amounts  contributed  to  your  ABLE  account are greater than the annual contribution limit? If  amounts contributed to your ABLE account are greater than the annual contribution limit, the excess contributions and the earnings on those contributions must be returned to the contributors. The ABLE program should do this on or before the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return and must notify you of this action. The due date of your income tax return is generally April 15. However, it is your responsibility or the responsibility of the person acting on your behalf to ensure that certain contributions of your compensation income are not greater than the limit and to request the return of any excess contributions by the ABLE program.

You're subject to a 6% excise tax on the excess contributions and earnings that aren't returned by the ABLE program to the contributors by the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return. You figure this tax on Form 5329, Part VIII, and file it even if you're not otherwise required to file a federal income tax return.

What  if  your  ABLE  account  exceeds  the  cumulative  limit? The  cumulative  limit  for  an  ABLE  account  is set by each state's ABLE program. If your ABLE account exceeds  the  cumulative  limit,  the  state's  ABLE  program will return to the contributors the contributions that caused your account to go over the limit, and notify you of this action by the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return. The due date of your income tax return is generally April 15.

Distributions. You can take distributions from your ABLE account to pay for any qualified disability expenses, such as expenses for maintaining or improving your health, independence, or quality  of  life.  Qualified  disability  expenses  include  those  for  education,  housing,  transportation, employment  training  and  support,  assistive  technology, personal  support  services,  health,  prevention  and  wellness, financial management, administrative services, legal fees,  expenses for oversight and monitoring, and funeral and burial expenses.

If  distributions  from  your  ABLE  account  during  a  year aren't more than your qualified disability expenses for that year, no amount is taxable for that year. If the total amount distributed during a year is more than your qualified disability  expenses  for  that  year,  the  earnings  portion  of  the distribution  is  included  in  your  income  for  that  year,  after the calculation in Table 1.

## Table 1. Figuring the Taxable Portion of a Distribution

| The year's total distributions for qualified disability expenses   | x Earnings portion of the year's   | = Amount nontaxable for the   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| The year's total distributions                                     | distributions                      | year                          |

Example. On  August  2,  2025,  the  taxpayer's  ABLE account has a balance of $2,400; $2,000 is from contributions and $400 is earnings. During 2025, the taxpayer has qualified  disability  expenses  of  $1,600,  but  they  receive distributions  from  their  ABLE  account  totaling  $2,400  on August  2,  2025.  They  figure  the  nontaxable  part  of  their earnings portion as follows.

| Distributions for qualified disability expenses: $1,600 Total distributions: $2,400   | x Earnings portion of the year's distributions: $400   | = $266.67, the nontaxable portion of the earnings   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|

The  taxpayer  will  include  the  difference  of  $133.33 ($400 - $266.67) in their gross income for 2025.

The tax on any distribution included in your taxable income is increased by 10%. Figure this tax on Form 5329, Part II,  and  file  it  even  if  you're  not  otherwise  required  to file a federal income tax return.

Rollovers, program-to-program transfers, and beneficiary changes. If  you need to move your ABLE account to another qualified ABLE program to change the designated  beneficiary  of  the  account,  you  can  accomplish  this through a rollover. If the ABLE program permits, funds can move from one ABLE account to another through a direct program-to-program transfer.

Rollover. You don't  include  in  your  gross  income  any amount distributed to you from your ABLE account if it's rolled over within 60 days to another ABLE account established  for  you  or  for  an  eligible  family  member  and  no other  rollover  has  been  made  within  the  previous  12 months.  Eligible  family  member  means  a  sibling  only, whether by blood or by adoption, and includes a brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister.

Program-to-program transfer. The entire balance of your ABLE account can be transferred by your ABLE program to another ABLE program. You can also have your ABLE program transfer all or part of the  balance  in  your account to an eligible family member. If the entire balance is  transferred, your first ABLE account is closed after the transfer is complete. A program-to-program transfer isn't a distribution  so  you  don't  include  any  of  the  transferred amount in your gross income.

Change of designated beneficiary. Your ABLE program  may  permit  you  to  change  the  beneficiary  of  your ABLE account from yourself to one of your siblings if your sibling is an eligible individual for the tax year in which you make the change.

Rollover from section 529 tuition account to section 529A  ABLE  account. Rollovers  may  be  made  without penalty  from  a  section  529  tuition  account  to  a  section 529A  ABLE  account  if  the  beneficiary  of  the  ABLE  account is the designated beneficiary of the tuition account or is an eligible member of the family. See Notice 2018-58. The limit on annual contributions to an ABLE account, discussed earlier  in Contribution  limitation ,  applies  to  these rollovers.

Information  returns  for  ABLE  accounts. You  may  receive from your ABLE program the following forms which you can use if you need to file an income tax return.

Form 1099-QA, Distributions From ABLE Accounts. An ABLE program issues this form to you to report all distributions made from your ABLE account.

## Form 5498-QA, ABLE Account Contribution Infor-

mation. An ABLE program issues this form to you annually to report contributions (including rollovers), FMV of the account, opening of a new account, certification of a qualified account, and your disability code.

If  you have any questions about the amounts on these forms, you should contact your ABLE program administrator.

## How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you right away.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all your  wage  and  earnings  statements  (Forms  W-2,  W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC,  etc.);  unemployment compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or other  government  payment  statements  (Form  1099-G); and  interest,  dividend,  and  retirement  statements  from banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return.  Y ou  can  prepare  the  tax  return  yourself,  see  if  you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing  and  filing  your  return  online  or  in  your  local  community, if you qualify, include the following.

- Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
- VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/ VITA , download the free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.
- TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
- MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to MilitaryOneSource ( MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax ).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

- The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant ( IRS.gov/ EITCAssistant ) determines if you're eligible for the earned income credit (EIC).
- The Online EIN Application ( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no cost.
- The Tax Withholding Estimator ( IRS.gov/W4App ) makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
- The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up ( IRS.gov/HomeBuyer ) tool provides information on your repayments and account balance.
- The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator ( IRS.gov/ SalesTax ) figures the amount you can claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes in tax law.

- IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.
- IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
- IRS.gov/Forms : Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your questions.
- You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are various  types  of  tax  return  preparers,  including  enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don't have professional credentials. If  you  choose  to  have  someone  prepare  your  tax  return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

- Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
- Required to sign the return, and
- Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the  return.  Anyone  paid  to  prepare  tax  returns  for  others should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents, and  individuals  who  process  Form  W-2,  Wage  and  Tax Statement,  and  Form  W-2c,  Corrected  Wage  and  Tax Statement.

Business  tax  account. If  you  are  a  sole  proprietor,  a partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business  tax  account.  Go  to IRS.gov/businessaccount for more information.

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with  you. Don't post  your  social  security  number (SSN)  or  other  confidential  information  on  social  media sites.  Always  protect  your  identity  when  using  any  social networking site.

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.

- Youtube.com/irsvideos .
- Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .

Online  tax  information  in  other  languages. You  can find  information  on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if  English  isn't your native language.

Free  Over-the-Phone  Interpreter  (OPI)  Service. The IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally funded program and is available at Taxpayer  Assistance  Centers  (TACs),  most  IRS  offices,  and every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.

Accessibility  Helpline  available  for  taxpayers  with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility  services  can  call  833-690-0598.  The  Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and future  accessibility  products  and  services  available  in  alternative  media  formats  (for  example,  Braille,  large  print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp .

Alternative  media  preference. Form  9000,  Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to

receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

- Standard Print.
- Braille.
- Large Print.
- Audio (MP3).
- Braille Ready File (BRF).
- Plain Text File (TXT).

Disasters. Go  to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to  review  the available disaster tax relief.

Getting  tax  forms  and  publications. Go  to IRS.gov/ Forms to  view,  download,  or  print  all  the  forms,  instructions,  and  publications you may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.

Mobile-friendly  forms. You'll  need  an  IRS  Online  Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures.  You'll  have  the  option  to  submit  your  form(s) online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of your documents  to support your submission. Go  to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.

Getting  tax  publications  and  instructions  in  eBook format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions  (including  the  Instructions  for  Form  1040)  on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks .

IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven't been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate as intended.

Access  your  online  account  (individual  taxpayers only). Go  to IRS.gov/Account to  securely  access  information about your federal tax account.

- View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
- See payment plan details or apply for a new payment plan.
- Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
- Access your tax records, including key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
- View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
- Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.
- View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the  filing  season.  You  can  get  a  transcript,  review  your most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/ Account .

Tax  Pro  Account. This  tool  lets  your  tax  professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS online account. For more information, go to IRS.gov/TaxProAccount .

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive  a  tax  refund  is  to  e-file  and  choose  direct  deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly  into  your  financial  account.  Direct  deposit  also avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, destroyed,  or  returned  undeliverable  to  the  IRS.  Eight  in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don't have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/ DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit union that can open an account online.

## Reporting  and  resolving  your  tax-related  identity theft issues.

- Tax-related identity theft happens when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
- The IRS doesn't initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
- Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft , the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you're a victim of tax-related identity theft, you can learn what steps you should take.
- Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN .

## Ways to check on the status of your refund.

- Go to IRS.gov/Refunds .
- Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
- Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

Caution: The IRS can't issue refunds before mid-February  for  returns  that  claimed  the  EIC  or  the  additional child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a  tax  payment. Payments  of  U.S.  tax  must  be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not

accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

- IRS Direct Pay : Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.
- Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet : Choose an approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
- Electronic Funds Withdrawal : Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
- Electronic Federal Tax Payment System : Best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
- Check or Money Order : Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
- Cash : You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
- Same-Day Wire : You may be able to do same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and faster than mailing in a check or money order.

What  if  I  can't  pay  now? Go  to IRS.gov/Payments for more information about your options.

- Apply for an online payment agreement ( IRS.gov/ OPA ) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can't pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
- Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC .

Filing  an  amended  return. Go  to IRS.gov/Form1040X for information and updates.

Checking the  status  of  your  amended  return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

Caution: It  can  take  up  to  3  weeks  from  the  date  you filed your amended return for it to show up in our system, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

Understanding  an  IRS  notice  or  letter  you've  received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.

IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to IRS.gov/DUT .

Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040), Request  for  Change  in  Language  Preference,  to  state  a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You may  not  immediately  receive  written  communications  in the  requested  language.  The  IRS's  commitment  to  LEP taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing  translations  in  2025.  You  will  continue  to  receive communications, including notices and letters, in English until they are translated to your preferred language.

Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax  issue  can't  be  handled  online  or  by  phone.  All  TACs now provide service by appointment, so you'll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find  the  nearest TAC and to check hours, available services,  and  appointment  options.  Or,  on  the  IRS2Go  app, under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on 'Local Offices.'

## The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) Is Here To Help You

## What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization  within  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS). TAS  helps  taxpayers  resolve  problems  with  the  IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent  or  correct  the  problems,  and  protects  taxpayer rights.  We  work  to  ensure  that  every  taxpayer  is  treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

## How Can TAS Help Me?

TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven't been able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can't, then come to TAS. Our services are free.

- TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS problem is causing financial difficulty, if you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should.
- To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov . The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if you get a notice from the IRS.
- TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS . (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

## How Do I Contact TAS?

TAS  has  offices  in  every  state,  the  District  of  Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate's number:

- Check your local directory, or
- Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us ,
- Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

## What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when  dealing with the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair  and equitable way.

## Tables

### Table 1

| 0 | 1 | 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| The year's total distributions for qualified disability expenses | x Earnings portion of the year's | = Amount nontaxable for the |
| The year's total distributions | distributions | year |

### Table 2

| 0 | 1 | 2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Distributions for qualified disability expenses: $1,600 Total distributions: $2,400 | x Earnings portion of the year's distributions: $400 | = $266.67, the nontaxable portion of the earnings |

## Full Text

<!-- image -->

VIRS

## Publication 907

## Tax Highlights for Persons With Disabilities

For use in preparing

2025 Returns

<!-- image -->

- IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
- IRS.gov (English)
- IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
- IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
- IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
- IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)

## Future Developments

For  the  latest  information  about  developments  related  to Pub. 907, such as legislation enacted after this publication was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub907 .

## What's New

Annual  contribution limit. For 2025,  the  maximum amount that can be contributed to your ABLE account is $19,000.  Certain  employed  ABLE  account  beneficiaries may contribute a limited additional amount. See Contribution limitation , later.

Retirement savings contributions credit (saver's credit) income limits increased. For 2025, your modified  adjusted  gross  income  must  be  not  more  than $39,500 ($79,000 if married filing jointly; $59,250 if head of  household).  See Credit  for  Qualified  Retirement  Savings Contributions , later.

## Introduction

An ABLE account. The Stephen Beck, Jr., Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2014 (ABLE) was enacted to help people with disabilities or who are blind save money in  a  tax-favored  ABLE  account  to  maintain  health,  independence, and quality of life. Compare ABLE programs on the websites of state governments to see which program is best suited for you. See ABLE Account , later.

This  publication  concerns  people  with  disabilities  and those who care for them. It includes highlights about:

my Social  Security  account. Social  security  beneficiaries can obtain helpful information from the Social Security Administration's  website  with  a my Social  Security account. See Social Security and Railroad Retirement Benefits , later.

- Income,
- Tax credits,
- Itemized deductions,
- Household employers,
- ABLE accounts.
- Business tax incentives, and

You will find most of the information you need to complete your tax return in its instructions.

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for information about getting publications, forms, and free tax services.

Comments  and  suggestions. We  welcome  your  comments about this publication and your suggestions for future editions.

You can send us comments through IRS.gov/ FormComments . Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue Service,  Tax  Forms  and  Publications,  1111  Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.

Although  we  can't  respond  individually  to  each  comment received,  we  do  appreciate  your  feedback  and  will consider  your  comments  and  suggestions  as  we  revise our  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications. Don't send tax  questions,  tax  returns,  or  payments  to  the  above  address.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If  you have a tax question not answered by this publication or the How To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go to  the  IRS  Interactive  Tax  Assistant  page  at IRS.gov/ Help/ITA where  you  can  find  topics  by  using  the  search feature or viewing the categories listed.

Getting  tax  forms,  instructions,  and  publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to  download  current  and  prior-year forms, instructions, and publications.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year  forms  and  instructions.  The  IRS  will  process your order for forms and publications as soon as possible. Don't resubmit requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

## Income

All  income is taxable unless it is specifically excluded by law. The following discussions highlight some taxable and nontaxable income items. For information about distributions from an ABLE account, see ABLE Account , later.

## Dependent Care Benefits

Dependent care benefits include the following.

- Amounts your employer paid directly to you or your care provider for the care of your qualifying person(s) while you worked.
- The fair market value (FMV) of care in a daycare facility provided or sponsored by your employer.
- Pre-tax contributions you made under a dependent care flexible spending arrangement.

Exclusion or deduction. If  your  employer  provides  dependent care benefits under a qualified plan, you may be able to exclude these benefits from your income. Your employer can tell you whether your benefit plan qualifies. To claim  the  exclusion,  you  must  complete  Part  III  of  Form 2441, Child and Dependent Care Expenses.

The amount you can exclude or deduct is limited to the smallest of the following.

If  you  are  self-employed  and  receive  benefits  from  a qualified dependent care benefit plan, you are treated as both employer and employee. Therefore, you wouldn't get an exclusion from wages. Instead, you would get a deduction on one of the following Form 1040 or 1040-SR schedules:  Schedule  C,  line  14;  Schedule  E,  line  19  or  28;  or Schedule F, line 15. To claim the deduction, you must use Form 2441.

1. The total amount of dependent care benefits you received during the year.
2. The total amount of qualified expenses you incurred during the year.
3. Your earned income.
4. Your spouse's earned income.

Statement for employee. Your employer must give you a Form W-2 (or similar statement) showing in box 10 the total  amount  of  dependent  care  benefits  provided  to  you during the year under a qualified plan. Your employer will also include any dependent care benefits over $5,000 for 2025 in your wages shown on your Form W-2 in box 1.

Qualifying  person(s). A  qualifying  person  is  any  of the following.

- A qualifying child who is under age 13 whom you can claim as a dependent. If the child turned 13 during the year, the child is a qualifying person for the part of the year they were under age 13.
- Your disabled spouse who isn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves.
- Any disabled person who wasn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves whom you can claim as a dependent (or could claim as a dependent except that the person had gross income of $5,200 or more or filed a joint return).
- Any disabled person who wasn't physically or mentally able to care for themselves whom you could claim as a dependent except that you (or your spouse if filing jointly) could be claimed as a dependent on another taxpayer's 2025 return.

For information about excluding benefits on Form 1040, Form 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR, see Form 2441 and its instructions.

## Social Security and Railroad Retirement Benefits

my Social Security account. Social security beneficiaries  may  quickly  and  easily  obtain  the  following  information from the Social Security Administration's website with a my Social Security account.

- Keep track of your earnings and verify them every year.
- Get an estimate of your future benefits if you are still working.
- Get a letter with proof of your benefits if you currently receive them.
- Change your address.
- Get a replacement Medicare card.
- Start or change your direct deposit.
- Get a replacement SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S for the tax season.

For  more  information  and  to  set  up  an  account,  go  to SSA.gov/MyAccount .

If  you  received  social  security  or  equivalent  tier  1  railroad  retirement  (RRTA)  benefits  during  the  year,  part  of the amount you received may be taxable.

Are  any  of  your  benefits  taxable? If  the  only  income you  received  during  the  year  was  your  social  security  or equivalent tier  1  RRTA benefits, your benefits are generally not taxable.

If you received income during the year in addition to social  security  or  equivalent  tier  1  RRTA  benefits,  part  of your benefits may be taxable if all of your other income, including tax-exempt interest, plus half of your benefits are more than:

- $25,000 if you are single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse;
- $25,000 if you are married filing separately and lived apart from your spouse for all of 2025;
- $32,000 if you are married filing jointly; or
- $0 if you are married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during 2025.

For  more  information,  see  the  instructions  for  Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 6a and 6b, and Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement Benefits.

Supplemental  Security  Income  (SSI)  payments. Social  security  benefits  don't  include  SSI  payments,  which aren't  taxable.  Don't  include  these  payments  in  your  income.

## Disability Pensions

If you retired on disability, you must include in income any disability pension you receive under a plan that is paid for by your employer. You must report your taxable disability payments as wages on line 1h of Form 1040 or 1040-SR until  you  reach  minimum retirement age. Minimum retirement age is  generally  the  age  at  which  you  can  first  receive a pension or annuity if you aren't disabled.

Tip: You may be entitled to a tax credit if you were permanently and totally disabled when you retired. See Pub. 524, Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled.

Beginning on the day after you reach minimum retirement age, payments you receive are taxable as a pension or annuity. Report the payments on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 5a and 5b. See Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income.

Terrorist  attacks. Don't  include  in  income  the  disability payments you receive for injuries incurred as a direct result of terrorist attacks directed against the United States (or its allies), whether outside or within the United States. In  the  case of the September 11 attacks, injuries eligible for  coverage  by  the  September  11  Victim  Compensation Fund are treated as incurred as a direct result of the attack.  However,  you  must  include  in  your  income  any amounts that you received that you would have received in retirement had you not become disabled as a result of a terrorist  attack.  Accordingly,  you  must  include  in  your  income any payments you receive from a 401(k), pension, or other retirement plan to the extent that you would have received the amount at the same or later time regardless of whether you had become disabled.

Disability payments you receive for injuries not incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack, or for illnesses or diseases not resulting from an injury incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack, cannot be excluded from your income  under  this  provision,  but  may  be  excludable  for other reasons as described in this publication.

Tip: Contact the company or agency making these payments if it incorrectly reports your payments as taxable income to the IRS on Form 1099-R, Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance  Contracts,  etc.,  to  request  that  it  reissue  the form to report some or all of these payments as nontaxable  income  in  box  12  (using  code  J)  of  Form  W-2,  or  in box 1 of Form 1099-R but not in box 2a. If income taxes are  being  incorrectly  withheld  from  these  payments,  you may  also  submit  Form  W-4P ,  Withholding  Certificate  for Pension or Annuity Payments, to the company or agency to  stop  the  withholding  of  income  taxes  from  the  payments.

Retirement  and  profit-sharing  plans. If  you  receive payments  from  a  retirement  or  profit-sharing  plan  that doesn't  provide  for  disability  retirement,  don't  treat  the payments as a disability pension. The payments must be reported as a pension or annuity.

Accrued  leave  payment. If  you  retire  on  disability,  any lump-sum payment you receive for accrued annual leave is  a  salary  payment.  The  payment  isn't  a  disability  payment. Include it in your income in the tax year you receive it.

See Pub. 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income.

## Military and Government Disability Pensions

Generally, you must report disability pensions as income, but don't include certain military and government disability pensions. See Pub. 525.

VA  disability  benefits. Don't  include  disability  benefits you receive from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in your gross income. If you are a military retiree and don't receive your disability benefits from the VA, see Pub. 525 for more information.

Don't  include  in  your  income  any  veterans'  benefits paid under any law, regulation, or administrative practice administered by the VA. These include:

- Education, training, and subsistence allowances;
- Disability compensation and pension payments for disabilities paid to veterans or their families;
- Grants for homes designed for wheelchair living;

- Grants for motor vehicles for veterans who lost their sight or the use of their limbs;
- Veterans' insurance proceeds and dividends paid to veterans or their beneficiaries, including the proceeds of a veteran's endowment policy paid before death;
- Interest on insurance dividends left on deposit with the VA;
- Benefits under a dependent-care assistance program;
- The death gratuity paid to a survivor of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces who died after September 10, 2001; or
- Payments made under the VA's compensated work therapy program.

## Other Payments

You may receive other payments that are related to your disability. The following payments aren't taxable.

- Benefit payments from a public welfare fund, such as payments due to blindness.
- Workers' compensation for an occupational sickness or injury if paid under a workers' compensation act or similar law.
- Compensatory (but not punitive) damages for physical injury or physical sickness.
- Disability benefits under a 'no-fault' car insurance policy for loss of income or earning capacity as a result of injuries.
- Compensation for permanent loss or loss of use of a part or function of your body, or for your permanent disfigurement.

## Long-Term Care Insurance

Long-term care insurance contracts are generally treated as accident and health insurance contracts. Amounts you receive  from  them  (other  than  policyholder  dividends  or premium  refunds)  are  generally  excludable  from  income as amounts received for personal injury or sickness. See Pub. 525.

## Accelerated Death Benefits

You can exclude from income accelerated death benefits you receive on the life of an insured individual if certain requirements are met. Accelerated death benefits are amounts  received  under  a  life  insurance  contract  before the  death  of  the  insured.  These  benefits  also  include amounts received on the sale or assignment of the contract  to  a  viatical  settlement  provider.  This  exclusion  applies only if the insured was a terminally ill individual or a chronically ill individual. See Pub. 525.

## Itemized Deductions

If you file Form 1040 or 1040-SR, to lower your taxable income, you can generally claim the standard deduction or itemize your deductions, such as medical expenses, using Schedule A (Form 1040). For impairment-related work expenses, use the appropriate business form (1040 Schedules C, E, and F; or Form 2106, Employee Business Expenses).

## Medical Expenses

When figuring your deduction for medical expenses, you can  generally  include  medical  and  dental  expenses  you pay for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents.

Medical expenses are the cost of diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, and the costs for  treatments  affecting  any  part  or  function  of  the  body. They include the costs of equipment, supplies, diagnostic devices, and transportation for needed medical care and payments for medical insurance.

You  can  deduct  only  the  amount  of  your  medical  and dental expenses that is more than 7.5% of your adjusted gross income shown on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.

The following list highlights some of the medical expenses you can include in figuring your medical expense deduction.

- Artificial limbs, contact lenses, eyeglasses, and hearing aids.
- The part of the cost of Braille books and magazines that is more than the price of regular printed editions.
- Cost and repair of special telephone equipment for hearing-impaired persons.
- Cost of a wheelchair used mainly for the relief of sickness or disability, and not just to provide transportation to and from work. The cost of operating and maintaining the wheelchair is also a medical expense.
- Cost and care of a guide dog or other animal aiding a person with a physical disability.
- Costs for a school that furnishes special education if a principal reason for using the school is its resources for relieving a mental or physical disability. This includes the cost of teaching Braille and lip reading and the cost of remedial language training to correct a condition caused by a birth defect.
- Premiums for qualified long-term care insurance, up to certain amounts.
- Improvements to a home that do not increase its value if the main purpose is medical care. An example is constructing entrance or exit ramps.

Tip: Improvements that increase a home's value, if the main purpose is medical care, may be partly included as a medical expense. See Pub. 502, Medical and Dental Expenses.

## Impairment-Related Work Expenses

If you are disabled, you can take a business deduction for expenses that are necessary for you to be able to work. If you take a business deduction for these impairment-related work expenses, they are not subject to the 7.5% limit that applies to medical expenses.

You are disabled if you have:

- A physical or mental disability (for example, blindness or deafness) that functionally limits your being employed; or
- A physical or mental impairment (including, but not limited to, a sight or hearing impairment) that substantially limits one or more of your major life activities, such as performing manual tasks, walking, speaking, breathing, learning, or working.

Impairment-related  expenses  defined. Impairment-related  expenses  are  those  ordinary  and  necessary  business expenses that are:

- Necessary for you to do your work satisfactorily;
- For goods and services not required or used, other than incidentally, in your personal activities; and
- Not specifically covered under other income tax laws. See Pub. 502.

## Tax Credits

This discussion highlights four tax credits which may lower your tax due and may be refundable.

## Child and Dependent Care Credit

If you pay someone to care for your dependent under age 13 or your spouse or dependent who is not able to care for themselves, you may be able to get a credit of up to 35% of  your  expenses. To qualify, you must pay these expenses so you can work or look for work. The care must be provided for:

1. Your qualifying child who is your dependent and who was under age 13 when the care was provided;
2. Your spouse who was not physically or mentally able to care for themselves and lived with you for more than half the year; or
3. A person who was not physically or mentally able to care for themselves, lived with you for more than half the year, and either:
- a. Was your dependent; or
- b. Would have been your dependent except that:
- i. They had gross income of $5,200 or more;
- ii. They filed a joint return; or
- iii. You, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2025 return.

You can claim the credit on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. You figure the credit on Form 2441.

For  more  information,  see  the  instructions  for  Schedule R (Form 1040).

## Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled

You may be able to claim this credit if you are a U.S. citizen or a resident alien and either of the following applies.

- You were 65 or older at the end of 2025.
- You were under 65 at the end of 2025, and retired on permanent or total disability.

You can claim the credit on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. You figure the credit on Schedule R (Form 1040), Credit for the Elderly or the Disabled.

For  more  information,  see  the  Instructions  for  Schedule R (Form 1040).

## Earned Income Credit

This  credit  is  for  workers  with  low  to  moderate  incomes who  have  a  qualifying  child  or  meet  other  qualifications. You  can  get  the  credit  if  your  adjusted  gross  income  for 2025 is less than:

- $19,104 ($26,214 for married filing jointly) if you do not have a qualifying child,
- $50,434 ($57,554 for married filing jointly) if you have one qualifying child,
- $57,310 ($64,430 for married filing jointly) if you have two qualifying children, or
- $61,555 ($68,675 for married filing jointly) if you have three or more qualifying children.

To  figure  the  credit,  use  the  worksheet  in  the  Instructions  for  Form  1040.  If  you  have  a  qualifying  child,  also complete  Schedule  EIC  (Form  1040),  Earned  Income Credit, and attach it to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

Qualifying child. To be a qualifying child, your child must be  younger  than  you  (or  your  spouse  if  married  filing jointly) and under age 19 or a full-time student under age 24 at the end of 2025, or permanently and totally disabled at any time during 2025, regardless of age.

Earned income. If  you  are  retired  on  disability,  benefits you  receive  under  your  employer's  disability  retirement plan are considered earned income until you reach minimum  retirement  age.  However,  payments  you  received from a disability insurance policy that you paid the premiums for are not earned income.

More information. For more information, including all the requirements to claim the earned income credit, see the

instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27, and Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit.

## Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings Contributions

You may be able to claim the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions (also known as the saver's credit) of up to $1,000 (up to $2,000 if filing jointly) if you make eligible  contributions  to  your  ABLE  account.  This  is  a  nonrefundable credit, which means the amount of the credit in any year can't be more than your tax that you would otherwise pay (not counting any refundable credits) for any tax year.  If  your  tax  liability  is  reduced  to  zero  because  of other  nonrefundable  credits,  such  as  the  credit  for  child and dependent care expenses, then you won't be entitled to this credit.

Can you claim the credit? If you make eligible contributions to your ABLE account, you can claim the credit if all of the following apply.

1. You were born before January 2, 2008.
2. You aren't a full-time student (explained later).
3. No one else, such as your parent(s), claims an exemption for you on their tax return.
4. Your adjusted gross income (defined below) isn't more than:
- a. $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
- b. $59,250 if your filing status is head of household; or
- c. $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.

Full-time  student. You're  a  full-time  student  if,  during some part of each of 5 calendar months (not necessarily consecutive) during the calendar year, you're either:

- A full-time student at a school that has a regular teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of students in attendance; or
- A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course given by either a school that has a regular teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of students in attendance, or a state, county, or local government.

You're a full-time student if you're enrolled for the number  of  hours  or  courses  the  school  considers  to  be  full time.

Adjusted gross income. This is generally the amount on your  2025  Form  1040,  1040-SR,  or  1040-NR,  line  11. However, you must add to that any exclusion or deduction claimed for the year for:

- Foreign earned income,
- Income from bona fide residents of American Samoa, and
- Income from Puerto Rico.

Eligible contributions. Include on Form 8880 your contributions made before 2026 to your ABLE account, as defined in section 529A, up to the annual contribution limit, to figure the amount, if any, of your retirement savings contributions credit (also known as the saver's credit).

Reducing  eligible  contributions. Reduce  your  eligible contributions (but not below zero) by the total distributions you received during the testing period from any ABLE account or from any retirement plan. Don't reduce your eligible  contributions by the portion of any distribution that is rolled over to another ABLE account.

Distributions received by spouse. Any distributions your spouse received are treated as received by you if you file a joint return with your spouse both for the year of the distribution and for the year for which you claim the credit.

Testing period. The testing period consists of the year for which you claim the credit, the period after the end of that  year  and  before  the  due  date  (including  extensions) for filing your return for that year, and the 2 tax years before that year.

Maximum  eligible  contributions. After  your  contributions  are  reduced,  the  maximum  annual  contribution  on which you can base the credit is $2,000 per person.

Effect on other credits. The amount of this credit won't change the  amount  of  your  refundable  tax  credits.  A  refundable tax credit, such as the earned income credit or the  refundable  amount  of  your  child  tax  credit,  is  an amount  that  you  would  receive  as  a  refund  even  if  you don't owe any taxes.

More  information  on  how  to  figure  and  report  the credit. See Form 8880 to determine your credit.

## Household Employers

If you pay someone to work in your home, such as a babysitter or housekeeper, you may be a household employer who has to pay employment taxes.

A person you hire through an agency is not your employee if the agency controls what work is done and how it is done. This control could include setting the fee, requiring regular reports, and providing rules of conduct and appearance.  In  this  case,  you  do  not  have  to  pay  employment taxes on the amount you pay. But if you control what work is done and how it is done, the worker is your employee. If you possess the right to discharge a worker, that worker is generally considered to be your employee. If a worker is your employee, it does not matter that you hired the worker through an agency or from a list provided by an agency.

To  find  out  if  you  have  to  pay  employment  taxes,  see Pub. 926, Household Employer's Tax Guide.

## Business Tax Incentives

If you own or operate a business, you should be aware of the following tax incentives for businesses to help persons with disabilities.

- Deduction for costs of removing barriers to the disabled and the elderly -This is a deduction a business can take for making a facility or public transportation vehicle more accessible to and usable by persons who are disabled or elderly. See chapter 7 of Pub. 535, Business Expenses.
- Disabled access credit -This is a nonrefundable tax credit for an eligible small business that pays or incurs expenses to provide access to persons with disabilities. The expenses must be to enable the eligible small business to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 as in effect on November 5, 1990. See Form 8826, Disabled Access Credit.
- Work opportunity credit -This credit provides businesses with an incentive to hire individuals from targeted groups that have a particularly high unemployment rate or other special employment needs. One targeted group consists of vocational rehabilitation referrals. These are individuals who have a physical or mental disability that results in a substantial handicap to employment and who have been referred to the employer upon completion of (or while receiving) rehabilitative services. See Form 5884, Work Opportunity Credit.

## ABLE Account

Overview. Compare ABLE programs on the websites of state governments to see which program is best suited for you.

- An ABLE account is a tax-favored savings account that can accept contributions for an eligible individual with a disability or who is blind, and who is the designated beneficiary and owner of the account. The account is used to provide for qualified disability expenses.
- An ABLE account is generally disregarded for purposes of determining eligibility for benefits under Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and certain other means-tested federal programs. For further information, go to SSA.gov .
- A designated beneficiary is limited to only one ABLE account at a time (for exceptions, see Rollovers, program-to-program transfers, and beneficiary changes , later). If an additional ABLE account is opened (other than for receiving a rollover or program-to-program transfer), it is still an ABLE account if either all contributions made to the additional account are returned to the contributors or the additional account is transferred into your preexisting ABLE account with any excess contributions and excess aggregate contributions being returned to the contributors, on or before

the due date (including extensions) of your federal income tax return for the year in which the additional account was established.

- Earnings in an ABLE account aren't taxed unless a distribution exceeds a designated beneficiary's qualified disability expenses. A designated beneficiary doesn't include distributions for qualified disability expenses in their income. Qualified disability expenses include any expenses incurred at a time when the designated beneficiary is an eligible individual. The expenses must relate to blindness or disability, including expenses for maintaining or improving health, independence, or quality of life.
- Contributions to an ABLE account are not tax deductible and must be in cash or cash equivalents. Anyone, including the designated beneficiary, can contribute to an ABLE account. An ABLE account is subject to an annual contribution limit and a cumulative balance limit.
- Upon your death, as a designated beneficiary, any state may file a claim (either with the person with signature authority over your ABLE account or the executor of your estate) for the amount of the total medical assistance paid to you under the state's Medicaid plan after you (or a person with authority to open an ABLE account on your behalf) established an ABLE account. The amount paid in satisfaction of such a claim is not a taxable distribution from your ABLE account. Further, this amount is paid to the state only after all your qualified disability expenses have been paid from your ABLE account and the amount paid to satisfy the state's claim is reduced by the amount of all premiums you paid to a Medicaid Buy-In program under that state's Medicaid plan.

Who  can  establish  an  ABLE  account  and  what  are the requirements? You may establish an ABLE account if your blindness or disability occurred before age 26. As a disabled individual, you may be eligible if either of the following applies.

- You are entitled to benefits based on blindness or disability under title II or XVI of the Social Security Act.
- You file a disability certification under the rules of your qualified ABLE program, which will include information regarding your diagnosis relating to your relevant impairment or impairments signed by a physician (as defined in section 1861(r) of the Social Security Act). You must certify one of the following.
- You are blind within the meaning of section 1614(a) (2) of the Social Security Act.
- You have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which results in marked and severe functional limitations, which (a) can be expected to result in death, or (b) lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.

You  may  choose  to  have  someone  else  establish  an ABLE  account  for  you.  If  you're  unable  to  establish  an ABLE account, your agent, under a power of attorney, or if none, your conservator or legal guardian, spouse, parent,

sibling, grandparent, or a representative payee appointed for you by the Social Security Administration (SSA), in that order, can establish it for you. However, only you, the designated beneficiary, can have any interest in the account during your lifetime.

Loss  of  eligible  individual  status. If  you  establish  an ABLE account and later cease to be an eligible individual because,  for  example,  your  impairment  goes  into  remission, then beginning the first day of the next year no contributions may be accepted by your ABLE account. If you cease to be an eligible individual, then for each tax year in which  you  are  not  an  eligible  individual,  the  account  will continue to be an ABLE account, and the ABLE account will  not  be  deemed  to  be  distributed.  Contributions  may resume after the impairment recurs. You should notify your ABLE program of any changes in your eligibility status.

Distributions  from  your  ABLE  account  during  a  period you're  no  longer  an  eligible  individual  aren't  for  qualified disability  expenses  and  therefore  are  possibly  subject  to tax. The earnings portion of a distribution (determined under  section  72)  made  from  your  ABLE  account  to  you when you're no longer an eligible individual may be taxable.

Example. In 2025, the taxpayer is an eligible individual with $2,400 in their ABLE account. $2,000 of this is from contributions, and $400 is earnings. During 2025, the taxpayer's disability goes into remission and they are no longer an eligible individual. In 2026, a distribution of $2,400 is made to the taxpayer from the ABLE account while they aren't an eligible individual. The earnings portion, $400, is included in the taxpayer's gross income after the calculation in Table 1. Figuring the Taxable Portion of a Distribution .

Contribution  limitation. The  total  annual  contributions to an ABLE account (including amounts rolled over from a section  529  account,  but  not  other  amounts  received  in rollovers  and/or  program-to-program  transfers  between ABLE accounts) are limited to the annual gift tax exclusion amount ($19,000 for 2025), plus certain employed ABLE account beneficiaries may make an additional contribution up to the lesser of these amounts: (1) the designated beneficiary's compensation for the tax year, or (2) the poverty line  amount  of  $15,650  in  the  continental  United  States, $17,990 in Hawaii and $19,550 in Alaska. The designated beneficiary's  contribution  limit  is  determined  using  the poverty guideline applicable in the state of the designated beneficiary's  residence.  An  employed designated beneficiary  isn't  eligible  for  the  increased  contribution  limit  for the  tax  year  if  any  contribution  is  made  on  behalf  of  the employee  to  a  qualified  defined  contribution  plan  (within the meaning of section 414(i)), a section 403(b) plan, or a section  457(b)  plan.  Also,  contributions  may  not  exceed an  annual  cumulative  limit,  which  is  the  same  as  the state's section 529 qualified tuition program limit.

What  if  amounts  contributed  to  your  ABLE  account are greater than the annual contribution limit? If  amounts contributed to your ABLE account are greater than the annual contribution limit, the excess contributions and the earnings on those contributions must be returned to the contributors. The ABLE program should do this on or before the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return and must notify you of this action. The due date of your income tax return is generally April 15. However, it is your responsibility or the responsibility of the person acting on your behalf to ensure that certain contributions of your compensation income are not greater than the limit and to request the return of any excess contributions by the ABLE program.

You're subject to a 6% excise tax on the excess contributions and earnings that aren't returned by the ABLE program to the contributors by the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return. You figure this tax on Form 5329, Part VIII, and file it even if you're not otherwise required to file a federal income tax return.

What  if  your  ABLE  account  exceeds  the  cumulative  limit? The  cumulative  limit  for  an  ABLE  account  is set by each state's ABLE program. If your ABLE account exceeds  the  cumulative  limit,  the  state's  ABLE  program will return to the contributors the contributions that caused your account to go over the limit, and notify you of this action by the due date (including any extensions) of your income tax return. The due date of your income tax return is generally April 15.

Distributions. You can take distributions from your ABLE account to pay for any qualified disability expenses, such as expenses for maintaining or improving your health, independence, or quality  of  life.  Qualified  disability  expenses  include  those  for  education,  housing,  transportation, employment  training  and  support,  assistive  technology, personal  support  services,  health,  prevention  and  wellness, financial management, administrative services, legal fees,  expenses for oversight and monitoring, and funeral and burial expenses.

If  distributions  from  your  ABLE  account  during  a  year aren't more than your qualified disability expenses for that year, no amount is taxable for that year. If the total amount distributed during a year is more than your qualified disability  expenses  for  that  year,  the  earnings  portion  of  the distribution  is  included  in  your  income  for  that  year,  after the calculation in Table 1.

## Table 1. Figuring the Taxable Portion of a Distribution

| The year's total distributions for qualified disability expenses   | x Earnings portion of the year's   | = Amount nontaxable for the   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| The year's total distributions                                     | distributions                      | year                          |

Example. On  August  2,  2025,  the  taxpayer's  ABLE account has a balance of $2,400; $2,000 is from contributions and $400 is earnings. During 2025, the taxpayer has qualified  disability  expenses  of  $1,600,  but  they  receive distributions  from  their  ABLE  account  totaling  $2,400  on August  2,  2025.  They  figure  the  nontaxable  part  of  their earnings portion as follows.

| Distributions for qualified disability expenses: $1,600 Total distributions: $2,400   | x Earnings portion of the year's distributions: $400   | = $266.67, the nontaxable portion of the earnings   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|

The  taxpayer  will  include  the  difference  of  $133.33 ($400 - $266.67) in their gross income for 2025.

The tax on any distribution included in your taxable income is increased by 10%. Figure this tax on Form 5329, Part II,  and  file  it  even  if  you're  not  otherwise  required  to file a federal income tax return.

Rollovers, program-to-program transfers, and beneficiary changes. If  you need to move your ABLE account to another qualified ABLE program to change the designated  beneficiary  of  the  account,  you  can  accomplish  this through a rollover. If the ABLE program permits, funds can move from one ABLE account to another through a direct program-to-program transfer.

Rollover. You don't  include  in  your  gross  income  any amount distributed to you from your ABLE account if it's rolled over within 60 days to another ABLE account established  for  you  or  for  an  eligible  family  member  and  no other  rollover  has  been  made  within  the  previous  12 months.  Eligible  family  member  means  a  sibling  only, whether by blood or by adoption, and includes a brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister.

Program-to-program transfer. The entire balance of your ABLE account can be transferred by your ABLE program to another ABLE program. You can also have your ABLE program transfer all or part of the  balance  in  your account to an eligible family member. If the entire balance is  transferred, your first ABLE account is closed after the transfer is complete. A program-to-program transfer isn't a distribution  so  you  don't  include  any  of  the  transferred amount in your gross income.

Change of designated beneficiary. Your ABLE program  may  permit  you  to  change  the  beneficiary  of  your ABLE account from yourself to one of your siblings if your sibling is an eligible individual for the tax year in which you make the change.

Rollover from section 529 tuition account to section 529A  ABLE  account. Rollovers  may  be  made  without penalty  from  a  section  529  tuition  account  to  a  section 529A  ABLE  account  if  the  beneficiary  of  the  ABLE  account is the designated beneficiary of the tuition account or is an eligible member of the family. See Notice 2018-58. The limit on annual contributions to an ABLE account, discussed earlier  in Contribution  limitation ,  applies  to  these rollovers.

Information  returns  for  ABLE  accounts. You  may  receive from your ABLE program the following forms which you can use if you need to file an income tax return.

Form 1099-QA, Distributions From ABLE Accounts. An ABLE program issues this form to you to report all distributions made from your ABLE account.

## Form 5498-QA, ABLE Account Contribution Infor-

mation. An ABLE program issues this form to you annually to report contributions (including rollovers), FMV of the account, opening of a new account, certification of a qualified account, and your disability code.

If  you have any questions about the amounts on these forms, you should contact your ABLE program administrator.

## How To Get Tax Help

If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you right away.

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all your  wage  and  earnings  statements  (Forms  W-2,  W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC,  etc.);  unemployment compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or other  government  payment  statements  (Form  1099-G); and  interest,  dividend,  and  retirement  statements  from banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return.  Y ou  can  prepare  the  tax  return  yourself,  see  if  you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing  and  filing  your  return  online  or  in  your  local  community, if you qualify, include the following.

- Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
- VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/ VITA , download the free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.
- TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
- MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to MilitaryOneSource ( MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax ).

Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

- The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant ( IRS.gov/ EITCAssistant ) determines if you're eligible for the earned income credit (EIC).
- The Online EIN Application ( IRS.gov/EIN ) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no cost.
- The Tax Withholding Estimator ( IRS.gov/W4App ) makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
- The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up ( IRS.gov/HomeBuyer ) tool provides information on your repayments and account balance.
- The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator ( IRS.gov/ SalesTax ) figures the amount you can claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes in tax law.

- IRS.gov/Help : A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.
- IRS.gov/ITA : The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
- IRS.gov/Forms : Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your questions.
- You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are various  types  of  tax  return  preparers,  including  enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don't have professional credentials. If  you  choose  to  have  someone  prepare  your  tax  return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

- Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
- Required to sign the return, and
- Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the  return.  Anyone  paid  to  prepare  tax  returns  for  others should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents, and  individuals  who  process  Form  W-2,  Wage  and  Tax Statement,  and  Form  W-2c,  Corrected  Wage  and  Tax Statement.

Business  tax  account. If  you  are  a  sole  proprietor,  a partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business  tax  account.  Go  to IRS.gov/businessaccount for more information.

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with  you. Don't post  your  social  security  number (SSN)  or  other  confidential  information  on  social  media sites.  Always  protect  your  identity  when  using  any  social networking site.

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.

- Youtube.com/irsvideos .
- Youtube.com/irsvideosASL .

Online  tax  information  in  other  languages. You  can find  information  on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if  English  isn't your native language.

Free  Over-the-Phone  Interpreter  (OPI)  Service. The IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally funded program and is available at Taxpayer  Assistance  Centers  (TACs),  most  IRS  offices,  and every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.

Accessibility  Helpline  available  for  taxpayers  with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility  services  can  call  833-690-0598.  The  Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and future  accessibility  products  and  services  available  in  alternative  media  formats  (for  example,  Braille,  large  print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp .

Alternative  media  preference. Form  9000,  Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to

receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

- Standard Print.
- Braille.
- Large Print.
- Audio (MP3).
- Braille Ready File (BRF).
- Plain Text File (TXT).

Disasters. Go  to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to  review  the available disaster tax relief.

Getting  tax  forms  and  publications. Go  to IRS.gov/ Forms to  view,  download,  or  print  all  the  forms,  instructions,  and  publications you may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.

Mobile-friendly  forms. You'll  need  an  IRS  Online  Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures.  You'll  have  the  option  to  submit  your  form(s) online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of your documents  to support your submission. Go  to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.

Getting  tax  publications  and  instructions  in  eBook format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions  (including  the  Instructions  for  Form  1040)  on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks .

IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven't been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate as intended.

Access  your  online  account  (individual  taxpayers only). Go  to IRS.gov/Account to  securely  access  information about your federal tax account.

- View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
- See payment plan details or apply for a new payment plan.
- Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
- Access your tax records, including key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
- View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
- Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.
- View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the  filing  season.  You  can  get  a  transcript,  review  your most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/ Account .

Tax  Pro  Account. This  tool  lets  your  tax  professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS online account. For more information, go to IRS.gov/TaxProAccount .

Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive  a  tax  refund  is  to  e-file  and  choose  direct  deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly  into  your  financial  account.  Direct  deposit  also avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, destroyed,  or  returned  undeliverable  to  the  IRS.  Eight  in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don't have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/ DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit union that can open an account online.

## Reporting  and  resolving  your  tax-related  identity theft issues.

- Tax-related identity theft happens when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
- The IRS doesn't initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
- Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft , the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you're a victim of tax-related identity theft, you can learn what steps you should take.
- Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN .

## Ways to check on the status of your refund.

- Go to IRS.gov/Refunds .
- Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
- Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

Caution: The IRS can't issue refunds before mid-February  for  returns  that  claimed  the  EIC  or  the  additional child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

Making a  tax  payment. Payments  of  U.S.  tax  must  be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not

accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

- IRS Direct Pay : Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.
- Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet : Choose an approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
- Electronic Funds Withdrawal : Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
- Electronic Federal Tax Payment System : Best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
- Check or Money Order : Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
- Cash : You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
- Same-Day Wire : You may be able to do same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and faster than mailing in a check or money order.

What  if  I  can't  pay  now? Go  to IRS.gov/Payments for more information about your options.

- Apply for an online payment agreement ( IRS.gov/ OPA ) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can't pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
- Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC .

Filing  an  amended  return. Go  to IRS.gov/Form1040X for information and updates.

Checking the  status  of  your  amended  return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

Caution: It  can  take  up  to  3  weeks  from  the  date  you filed your amended return for it to show up in our system, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

Understanding  an  IRS  notice  or  letter  you've  received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.

IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to IRS.gov/DUT .

Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040), Request  for  Change  in  Language  Preference,  to  state  a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You may  not  immediately  receive  written  communications  in the  requested  language.  The  IRS's  commitment  to  LEP taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing  translations  in  2025.  You  will  continue  to  receive communications, including notices and letters, in English until they are translated to your preferred language.

Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax  issue  can't  be  handled  online  or  by  phone.  All  TACs now provide service by appointment, so you'll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find  the  nearest TAC and to check hours, available services,  and  appointment  options.  Or,  on  the  IRS2Go  app, under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on 'Local Offices.'

## The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) Is Here To Help You

## What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization  within  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS). TAS  helps  taxpayers  resolve  problems  with  the  IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent  or  correct  the  problems,  and  protects  taxpayer rights.  We  work  to  ensure  that  every  taxpayer  is  treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

## How Can TAS Help Me?

TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven't been able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can't, then come to TAS. Our services are free.

- TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS problem is causing financial difficulty, if you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should.
- To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov . The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if you get a notice from the IRS.
- TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS . (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

## How Do I Contact TAS?

TAS  has  offices  in  every  state,  the  District  of  Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate's number:

- Check your local directory, or
- Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us ,
- Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

## What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when  dealing with the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair  and equitable way.
